[Biology] biocentric american doctor robert lanza regenerative medicine central driving science biocentrism current theories physical world biocentrism claims critics lanza future experiments scaled-up quantum superposition hypothesis biocentrism robert lanza scholar quantum physics lanza bob berman biocentrism consciousness keys understanding true nature universe lanza scholar biocentrism descartes kant leibniz berkeley schopenhauer bergson animal sense perception physical objects lanza major puzzles uncertainty principle double-slit experiment according lanza bob berman promising way field theories principles form principles state internal perceptions principle suggests undetermined state principle points principles state animal understanding lanza lanza publish aspects scientific journals synopsis lanza 's book biocentrism according lanza 's book biocentrism accidental byproduct key part biocentrism independent external universe biological existence part physical parameters biocentrism new approaches understanding cognition biocentrism purports reception physician nobel e. donnall thomas short statement central role testable predictions arizona state university physicist lawrence krauss interesting philosophy n't look daniel dennett usa online theoretical physicist science writer david lindley inarticulate metaphor new sort philosophical insight lanza stephen p. smith lanza smith lanza philosophical rigor lanza colloquial style good popular books age deepak chopra consciousness [ ancient wisdom traditions consciousness conceives physical world objective reality jacquelynn baas emeritus california berkeley art major challenge modern times scientific method objective observation biocentrism monistic neurophenomenology solipsism nondualism anthropic fine-tuning vitalism references robert lanza biocentrism articles biocentricity.net videos faq biological scientist biologists fundamental research attempt biologists research attempt specific processes biologists research specific fields large-scale organism interactions whole multicellular organisms small-scale cellular molecular processes biologists study direct aspects biologists conduct research scientific method hypothesis formation others study multicellular organisms different fields evolutionary biology academic degree ph.d. direct independent research specific area biological scientists work fundamental research research enhances understanding scientific database furthermore human health natural environment biological scientists private industry laboratories post-graduate qualifications phd biological product development basic research particular fields new pharmaceutical drugs medical diagnostic tests increase crop yields basic researchers marketable treatments business goals biological product development private industry research plans biologists conduct laboratory experiments biological research natural observation plant species particular environment forest area recovers swift organic molecules biological scientists work biological genetic material biotechnological processes dna important substances human insulin growth hormone large quantities various genome projects isolate genes specific diseases health risks sickle cell anemia advances research opportunities commercial applications specialists biological scientists certain type specific activity recent advances traditional classifications aquatic biologists study micro-organisms marine biologists study salt water organisms limnologists study fresh water organisms marine biology centers molecular biology biochemical processes marine biology physical characteristics ocean floor handbook environmental scientists biochemists chemical composition complex chemical combinations botanists study plants plant life plant parts plant processes plant diseases geological record mycologists study fungi separate kingdom microbiologists microscopic organisms industrial microbiology fight infections characterize biological information molecular level cell reproduction human disease physiologists study life functions whole organism molecular level abnormal conditions physiologists certain area biophysicists mechanical energy computational biologists computer science address biological problems main focus computational simulation techniques scientific research topics experimental questions zoologists wildlife biologists study animals life processes live animals natural surroundings others dissect dead animals zoologists wildlife biologists analyze biological data potential uses water areas zoologists animal group ornithologists study birds mammalogists study mammals herpetologists study reptiles ichthyologists study fish cnidariologists study jellyfishes entomologists study insects ecologists population size various scientific disciplines working biological unhealthy conditions dangerous organisms toxic substances strict safety procedures biological scientists conduct field studies physical activity biological cold climates marine biologists encounter others work research ships sharp coral reefs hazardous marine life marine biologists biological scientists grant money biological regular hours 40-hour workweek researchers odd hours awards nobel physiology medicine swedish significant award crafoord biosciences list lists references u.s. occupational outlook handbook biology natural science modern biology eclectic field broad scope coherent fields basic unit basic unit new species internal environment vital condition subdisciplines biochemistry examines rudimentary chemistry molecular biology studies complex interactions biological molecules botany studies cellular biology examines basic building-block physiology examines chemical functions organ systems evolutionary biology examines ecology examines organisms interact history term biology latin form swedish carl linnaeus carl bibliotheca philosophiae naturalis sive physicae iii continens geologian phytologian generalis michael christoph hanov wolff german use biologie linnaeus theodor georg august roose lehre van der lebenskraft karl friedrich burdach human beings psychological perspective studien der gesammten heilkunst modern usage six-volume treatise biologie philosophie der lebenden natur gottfried reinhold treviranus different forms name biology [ biologie life [ lebenslehre modern biology recent development ancient times natural philosophy ancient civilizations mesopotamia egypt indian subcontinent china modern biology greece formal study medicine dates hippocrates bc bc aristotle bc bc especially history animals naturalist leanings biological causation aristotle 's successor lyceum theophrastus important contribution plant sciences ages scholars islamic al-dinawari rhazes medicine islamic greek philosopher traditions natural history aristotelian biology anton leeuwenhoek dramatic improvement microscopic life investigations jan swammerdam new interest basic techniques microscopic dissection advances profound impact central importance schleiden schwann universal ideas basic unit individual cells thanks robert remak rudolf virchow cell theory natural historians carl linnaeus basic taxonomy natural world scientific names georges-louis leclerc comte buffon artificial categories common descent buffon key figure evolutionary theories lamarck darwin serious jean-baptiste lamarck coherent theory environmental stress lamarck animal 's british naturalist charles darwin biogeographical approach humboldt uniformitarian geology lyell malthus 's writings population growth own morphological expertise extensive natural observations successful evolutionary theory natural selection similar reasoning alfred russel wallace darwin 's theory scientific community central axiom physical representation evolutionary principles population genetics dna new kinds model organisms double helical structure dna molecular genetics present times molecular domain genetic code har gobind khorana robert w. holley marshall warren nirenberg dna genome project general human genome genome project molecular definition human body foundations cell cell theory states fundamental unit cell division multicellular organisms organism 's body basic unit pathological processes energy flow occurs hereditary information dna cell division evolution life changes common origin evolution postulates earth common ancestor ancestral gene universal common ancestor biologists genetic code definitive evidence universal common descent introduced scientific lexicon jean-baptiste lamarck charles darwin viable scientific model natural selection alfred russel wallace evolution great variations earth darwin natural selection artificial selection genetic additional mechanism evolutionary development modern synthesis evolutionary history various species genealogical relationship widely biology generate information dna molecular biology ancient organisms biologists evolutionary relationships various methods major events evolutionary timeline genetics genes primary units dna specific ways basic machinery dna cells dna rna rna amino acids translation code rna amino acid dna dna linear chromosomes circular chromosomes dna hereditary information dna cell nucleus small amounts dna genetic information complete assemblage homeostasis homeostasis open system internal environment stable conditions multiple dynamic equilibrium adjustments regulation mechanisms exhibit homeostasis dynamic equilibrium certain functions biological system negative feedback sugar levels energy continuous input chemical reactions extract energy new cells chemical substances constitute food play biological chemical reactions new molecular structures plants solar energy raw materials organic molecules atp release energy non-luminal energy sources sustain life waste molecules important processes chemical substances sustain life cellular respiration structural molecular molecular level field overlaps molecular various systems dna rna protein synthesis cell biology studies physiological properties molecular levels unicellular organisms multicellular organisms understanding biological sciences cell types molecular biology anatomy macroscopic structures organ systems genetics genes turn play central role final phenotype modern research important tools particular gene genetic interactions genetic information chemical structure dna developmental biology studies originating modern developmental biology studies genetic control cell growth model developmental biology round worm caenorhabditis fruit fly drosophila danio mus arabidopsis model organism particular biological phenomena physiological physiology biochemical processes structures function physiological plant physiology animal physiology particular organism yeast cells human cells animal physiology human physiology non-human species plant physiology borrows techniques research fields physiology example nervous circulatory systems evolutionary evolutionary involves scientists special training particular organisms general questions evolutionary fossil record population genetics developmental biology evolutionary biology initial exclusion modern synthesis evolutionary developmental biology related evolutionary biology systematic multiple speciation events active field traditionally monera protista fungi plantae animalia five-kingdom system modern alternative classification systems three-domain system archaea archaebacteria bacteria eubacteria eukaryota domains reflect chemical composition key biomolecules domain kingdom phylum genus species obligate intracellular parasites metabolic activity fundamental functions scientific name homo homo scientific name additionally entire term dominant classification system linnaean binomial nomenclature international agreements code nomenclature icn code zoological nomenclature iczn code nomenclature bacteria icnb sub-viral agents biological characteristics international committee taxonomy viruses ictv code viral classification nomenclature icvcn viral classification systems biocode standardize nomenclature biocode implementation date january biocode botanical congress biocode icvcn biocode viral classification ecological ecology local abiotic factors biotic factors biological systems different interactions small scales microscopic bacterium local sugar gradient african savanna matters species interact ecological different levels term population biology population ecology population biology population ecology ecology ethology studies animal behavior social animals ethologists natural selection modern ethologist charles darwin expression emotions animals biogeography spatial distribution earth plate tectonics profound advances recent decades life 's fundamental processes basic problems primary adaptive function key processes homologous recombination genetic diversity alternative view dna dna genetic diversity long run evolution sexual reproduction biologic basis ageing theories branches main branches aerobiology practical applications anatomy histology astrobiology biochemistry chemical reactions cellular level bioengineering biogeography bioinformatics information technology biological data biomathematics mathematical mathematical study biological processes biomechanics biomedical pharmacology practical application synthetic medicines biomusicology biological point biophysics biological processes physical sciences biosemiotics biological processes biotechnology genetic modification synthetic biology synthetic biological functions indoor living environment botany cell complete unit chemical interactions cognitive natural environment natural ecosystems cryobiology developmental organism forms full structure embryology ecology environmental natural world particular area human activity epidemiology major component public health research evolutionary genetics epigenetics heritable changes gene expression cellular phenotype dna hematology haematology integrative whole organisms limnology inland waters marine biology biological ocean ecosystems microbiology microscopic organisms bacteriology mycology parasitology virology virus-like agents molecular biological functions molecular level nanobiology nanoscale level neurobiology nervous system population conspecific organisms population population dynamics population gene frequencies paleontology geographic evidence prehistoric life pathobiology physiology phytopathology plant diseases pathology psychobiology biological bases quantum quantum mechanics biological objects sociobiology biological bases structural molecular biology molecular structure biological macromolecules zoology ethology animal behavior entomology herpetology ichthyology mammalogy ornithology glossary list biological websites list list biology topics list omics topics list biology journals outline reproduction terminology periodic life sciences tinbergen references biology dmoz osu phylocode biology online wiki dictionary mit video lecture series biology bioethics biological systems idaho laboratory tree internet biology biological literature web resources journal links plos biology open-access journal public library current biology general journal original research biology royal society journal biology general interest science magazine internationally renowned aaas publication sections international journal biological biological journal scientific papers perspectives biology medicine broad relevance life science log biographical dictionaries entries english becher anne joseph richey american environmental leaders colonial times grey isbn butcher russell d. stephen e. adair lynn a. greenwalt america national wildlife refuges roberts rinehart publishers ducks unlimited isbn cullen katherine e. encyclopedia life science infobase isbn ecological internet ecoearth.info environment search engine ecological internet encyclopedia john wiley may isbn encyclopedia groves dictionaries incorporated november isbn adrian davis s. ingram cambridge encyclopedia cambridge gaither carl c. alma e. cavazos-gaither andrew slocombe physics isbn gibson daniel audubon audubon national wildlife refuges arizona nevada mexico texas martin griffin isbn goudie andrew david j. cuff encyclopedia environmental human society oxford university press isbn gove doris audubon national wildlife refuges alabama florida georgia kentucky mississippi carolina puerto rico carolina tennessee u.s. martin griffin isbn grassy john audubon national wildlife refuges midwest illinois indiana iowa michigan minnesota nebraska dakota ohio dakota wisconsin martin griffin isbn grassy john audubon national wildlife refuges rocky colorado idaho montana utah wyoming martin griffin isbn peter encyclopedia biological krieger grinstein louise s. carol a. biermann rose k. rose biological sciences biobibliographic sourcebook greenwood isbn hancock john m. marketa j. zvelebil dictionary computational biology wiley-liss isbn hosansky david z. cq isbn laubach audubon national wildlife refuges england connecticut maine massachusetts hampshire rhode vermont martin griffin isbn mac arthur loren debbie s. miller audubon national wildlife refuges alaska alaska oregon washington martin griffin isbn mac arthur loren audubon national wildlife refuges california hawaii california hawaii martin griffin isbn marinelli janet stephen k.-m. tim brooklyn botanic brooklyn botanic garden gardener 's desk reference henry holt isbn mcainish t. f. physics medicine biology encyclopedia pergamon mongillo john f. zierdt-warshaw linda encyclopedia environmental rochester isbn munn r. e. encyclopedia global environmental wiley isbn national academy biographical national academy national academy nature encyclopedia life sciences nature isbn niergenberg william aaron edward o. wilson peter h. raven encyclopedia environmental biology academic isbn nybakken james willard william w. broenkow t. l. vallier interdisciplinary marine sciences grolier academic reference isbn o'daly anne encyclopedia life sciences marshall cavendish isbn palmer william audubon audubon national wildlife refuges arkansas kansas louisiana missouri oklahoma martin griffin isbn pilch richard f. raymond a. zilinskas encyclopedia bioterrorism defense wiley-liss isbn polunin nicholas lynn m. curme martin 's press environmental isbn porter roy marilyn bailey ogilvie biographical dictionary oxford university press isbn ricciuti edward r. audubon national wildlife refuges mid-atlantic delaware maryland jersey york pennsylvania virginia virginia martin griffin isbn roberts keith handbook plant science john wiley isbn royal society britain biographical royal society royal society issn shearer benjamin f. barbara smith shearer notable women life sciences biographical dictionary greenwood isbn sterling keir b. biographical canadian naturalists greenwood isbn u. s. energy scientific technical information science.gov u. s. dept energy scientific technical information wexler philip bruce d. anderson ann peyster encyclopedia elsevier academic isbn lifeforms biodiversity information natureserve online encyclopedia natureserve beacham walton frank v. castronova suzanne sessine beacham america gale isbn applied biodiversity biodiversity field history eol encyclopedia henry helen l. anthony w. norman encyclopedia academic isbn iucn invasive species specialist global invasive species database iucn invasive species specialist levin simon a. encyclopedia academic isbn pagel mark d. encyclopedia oxford university press isbn polistes discover polistes tree web project tree arizona wildlife world wildlife fund wildlife animals audubon encyclopedia animal clarkson n. potter bekoff marc jane goodall encyclopedia animal behavior greenwood isbn bruce jenni complete visual california isbn burton maurice robert burton international wildlife encyclopedia marshall cavendish isbn encyclopedia animal behavior facts file encyclopedia animal biology facts file encyclopedia animal ecology facts file encyclopedia animal evolution facts file grzimek bernhard grzimek animal encyclopedia van nostrand grzimek encyclopedia ethology van nostrand encyclopedia wildlife grey castle knobil ernst jimmy d. neill encyclopedia academic isbn macmillan animal encyclopedia macmillan marshall cavendish wildlife encyclopedia marshall cavendish nowak ronald m. david w. macdonald roland w. kays walker 's carnivores hopkins university press isbn oxford companion animal behaviour oxford nature encyclopedia raintree/steck-vaughn aquatic banister keith andrew campbell encyclopedia aquatic facts file dakin nick macmillan aquarium macmillan encyclopedia invertebrates t. f. h. publications folkens pieter a. randall r. reeves audubon guide marine mammals a. knopf isbn george david jennifer marine life encyclopedia invertebrates wiley halstead bruce dangerous aquatic animals color atlas darwin sterba gunther aquarium encyclopedia mit stickney robert r. encyclopedia wiley isbn fishes axelrod atlas freshwater aquarium fishes t. f. h. publications burgess mini-atlas freshwater aquarium fishes t. f. h. publications eschmeyer william n. earl stanndard herald howard hammann pacific coast fishes america alaska baja california houghton mifflin isbn froese r. d. pauly international center aquatic resources management fishbase global information system fishbase gilbert carter rowell james d. williams audubon audubon society field alfred a. knopf isbn goldstein robert j. rodney w. harper richard edwards american aquarium fishes texas m university press isbn page lawrence m. brooks m. burr eugene c. beckham iii audubon freshwater fishes america mexico houghton mifflin isbn paxton john r. william n. eschmeyer david kirshner encyclopedia academic isbn arthropods insects audubon society book insects abrams capinera john l. encyclopedia kluwer academic isbn johnson warren t. howard h. lyon c. s. koehler insects comstock associates isbn marshall s. a. insects natural history america firefly isbn milne lorus johnson margery joan greene milne susan rayfield audubon society field north american insects knopf isbn o'toole christopher encyclopedia insects facts file pyle robert michael carol nehring jane opper audubon audubon society field north american butterflies knopf isbn resh vincent h. encyclopedia academic isbn solomon j. d. u.s. dept forest service guide insect borers north american broadleaf trees u.s. dept forest service alderfer jonathan k. geographic u. s. geographic complete birds america geographic isbn ornithologists philadelphia cornell america ornithologists issn cambridge encyclopedia ornithology cambridge campbell bruce elizabeth lack dictionary buteo clark william s. brian k. wheeler america houghton mifflin isbn cornell cornell laboratory ornithology hoyo josep andrew elliott jordi sargatal handbook lynx edicions isbn dunn jon jonathan k. alderfer geographic u.s. geographic america geographic isbn ferguson-lees david a. christie kim franklin raptors houghton mifflin isbn fuller errol extinct comstock isbn perrins christopher encyclopedia prentice perrins christopher alex middleton encyclopedia facts file robbins chandler s. bertel bruun herbert spencer zim america martin 's press isbn sibley david sibley america alfred a. knopf isbn sibley david sibley america alfred a. knopf isbn sibley david chris elphick john b. dunning audubon sibley bird life alfred a. knopf isbn sibley david sibley alfred a. knopf isbn terres john k. audubon encyclopedia knopf endangered endangered wildlife marshall cavendish grolier encyclopedia endangered species grolier lowe david w. john r. matthews charles j. moseley wildlife official world wildlife america beacham isbn official world wildlife guide endangered species beacham mammals beacham walton kirk h. beetz beacham beacham isbn elbroch mark mammal north american species stackpole isbn folkens pieter a. randall r. reeves audubon guide marine mammals a. knopf isbn grzimek bernhard grzimek encyclopedia mammals mcgraw-hill isbn macdonald david encyclopedia mammals facts file isbn mammals multimedia encyclopedia geographic society/ibm nowak ronald walker mammals hopkins university press isbn reid fiona audubon america mexico houghton mifflin isbn whitaker john o. audubon audubon society field north american mammals knopf isbn wilson don e. sue ruff american society mammalogists smithsonian north american mammals smithsonian institution isbn canines alderton david september encyclopedia dogs hardcover bath parragon isbn isbn kennel complete dog book official publication kennel ballantine isbn coile d. caroline april encyclopedia dog breeds profiles breeds barron educational incorporated isbn de prisco andrew james b. johnson canine lexicon t. f. h. publications de vito dominique september atlas dog breeds print neptune nj lanham md tfh publications inc distributed u.s. bookstore library trade national book network isbn isbn dk july dog encyclopedia hardcover 1st ed. dk adult isbn isbn morris desmond dogs ultimate dictionary dog breeds trafalgar isbn wilcox bonnie walkowicz chris march atlas dog breeds print 5th ed. neptune nj lanham md tfh publications inc distributed u.s. bookstore library trade national book network isbn isbn cats kelsey-wood dennis atlas cats domesticated t. f. h. publications cattle felius marleen cattle misset isbn horses ensminger m. f. complete encyclopedia horses a. s. barnes griffin james tom gore horse owner veterinary handbook howell book house hendricks bonnie l. dent anthony august encyclopedia horse breeds oklahoma isbn kidd jane encyclopedia horse breeds h. p. kidd jane encyclopedia horse breeds breeding crescent primates jacobsen lawrence raymond hamel cynthia robinson wisconsin primate research center primate info net wisconsin primate research center wisconsin blakemore colin sheila jennett alan cuthbert oxford oxford university press isbn cooper david n. nature nature human genome nature isbn dulbecco renato encyclopedia biology academic kristic radivoj v. encyclopedia histology springer-verlag ramachandran v. s. encyclopedia human brain academic isbn ulijaszek stanley j. francis e. johnston m. a. preece cambridge human growth cambridge university press isbn jones stephen cambridge encyclopedia evolution cambridge milner richard encyclopedia evolution humanity search origins facts file tattersall ian encyclopedia evolution prehistory garland isbn reptiles amphibians behler john l. f. wayne king audubon audubon society field north american reptiles knopf isbn bonin franck bernard devaux turtles hopkins university press isbn campbell jonathan a. william w. lamar edmund d. brodie iii venomous reptiles hemisphere comstock isbn herpetology north american herpetology promoting north american amphibians herpetology conant roger joseph t. collins isabelle hunt conant america houghton mifflin isbn ernst carl h. evelyn m. ernst snakes canada smithsonian isbn halliday tim kraig alder encyclopedia reptiles amphibians facts file rossi john roxanne rossi snakes canada natural history krieger isbn smith hobart muir handbook lizards canada comstock isbn stebbins robert c. a field western reptiles houghton mifflin isbn bacteria fungi ian r. edible poisonous mushrooms timber isbn kuo michael john david moore darvin deshazer edible mushrooms michigan isbn kuo michael mushroomexpert.com michael kuo lincoff gary carol nehring audubon audubon society field north american mushrooms knopf isbn mcknight kent h. vera b. mcknight audubon america houghton mifflin isbn phillips roger geoffrey kibby nicky foy mushrooms america firefly isbn turner nancy j. adam f. szczawinski common poisonous plants america timber isbn plants bailey liberty hyde ethel zoe bailey hortus concise dictionary plants cultivated canada macmillan barker joan north american wild flowers parragon isbn beckett kenneth rhs encyclopedia house plants including greenhouse plants salem brickell christopher horticultural encyclopedia plants macmillan brickell christopher trevor j. cole horticultural horticultural society encyclopedia dk isbn burrows george e. toxic america wiley-blackwell isbn dirr michael dirr 's hardy trees timber isbn flora america flora america flora america flora america editorial flora america mexico oxford university press isbn gerard john thomas johnson general history dover publications isbn graf alfred byrd exotica pictorial cyclopedia exotic plants tropical near-tropical regions scribner graf alfred byrd hortica color cyclopedia flora climates indoor plants macmillan graf alfred byrd tropica color cyclopedia exotic plants scribner herwig rob housekeeping encyclopedia house plants hearst heywood v. h. d. m. moore b. k. richardson flowering oxford university press isbn heywood vernon h. stuart r. chat popular encyclopedia plants cambridge hillier manual trees shrubs van nostrand 5th ed. hogan sean flora gardener 's encyclopedia timber isbn hora bayard oxford encyclopedia trees oxford kaufman sylvan ramsey wallace kaufman invasive common north american species stackpole isbn lowe david w. john r. matthews charles j. moseley wildlife official world wildlife america beacham isbn mitchell alan trees america facts file moore david m. marshall cavendish encyclopedia plants earth marshall cavendish nelson lewis s. richard shih michael j. balick lewis r. goldfrank andrew weil york botanical handbook injurious plants york botanical springer isbn ness bryan d. magill 's encyclopedia plant life salem isbn phillips ellen colston burrell rodale encyclopedia perennials rodale quattrocchi umberto crc world dictionary common names scientific names crc/taylor francis isbn albert hofmann john r. baker psychoactive plants ethnopharmacology park street press isbn solomon jim missouri botanical w3tropicos vast vascular tropicos nomenclatural database missouri botanical spellenberg richard audubon society field north american wildflowers western region knopf isbn stace clive a. hilli thompson new flora cambridge university press isbn stickney robert r. encyclopedia wiley isbn thieret john wlliam a. niering nancy c. olmstead audubon society field north american wildflowers eastern region alfred a. knopf isbn turner nancy j. adam f. szczawinski common poisonous plants america timber isbn webere ewald invasive plant species environmental weeds cabi isbn zomlefer wendy guide plant families carolina isbn botany bradley fern marshall barbara w. ellis rodale all-new encyclopedia organic gardening resource gardener rodale brickell christopher horticultural encyclopedia gardening dorling kindersley isbn everett thomas h. york botanical encyclopedia horticulture garland fell derek encyclopedia smithmark huxley anthony horticultural dictionary gardening stockton moggi guido luciano guignolini simon schuster guide simon schuster seymour e. l. d. wise encyclopedia harpercollins shoemaker candice a. chicago botanic encyclopedia history fitzroy dearborn isbn taylor patrick oxford oxford university press isbn taylor encyclopedia gardening houghton mifflin thomas brian denis j. murphy brian g. murray encyclopedia plant sciences elsevier academic isbn westcott 's plant disease handbook van nostrand 5th ed. woods christopher encyclopedia perennials gardener guide facts file wyman gardening encyclopedia macmillan yepsen roger b. jr encyclopedia insect disease rodale trees burns russell m. barbara h. honkala u. s. dept forest service silvics america u. s. dept forest service cafferty steve firefly firefly isbn davis richard c. encyclopedia american forest conservation history macmillan collier macmillan isbn encyclopedia wood tree-by-tree guide world 's versatile resources facts file little elbert luther sonja bullaty angelo lomeo audubon audubon society field north american trees knopf isbn plotnik arthur mary phelan morton arboretum urban tree book uncommon field rivers isbn preston richard joseph richard r. braham north american trees iowa state press isbn rushforth keith charles hollis geographic america geographic isbn russell tony catherine cutler trees hermes isbn protists biochemistry scott thomas mary brewer concise encyclopedia biochemistry walter gruyter bioethics stephen garrard encyclopedia macmillan reference usa isbn reich warren t. encyclopedia bioethics free veterinary medical association avma veterinary medical association veterinary medical association 2006-. [ arntzen charles j. ellen m. ritter encyclopedia agricultural science academic isbn bailey liberty hyde cyclopedia american agriculture macmillan bailey l. h. ethel zoe bailey liberty hyde bailey hortorium hortus concise dictionary canada macmillan isbn bains william biotechnology z. oxford university press isbn brooklyn botanic janet marinelli stephen k-m. tim brooklyn botanic garden gardener 's desk reference henry holt isbn burns russell m. barbara h. honkala u.s. dept forest service silvics america u.s. dept forest service burrows george e. toxic america wiley-blackwell isbn 0813820340. [ cordell charles e. u.s. forest service forest nursery pests u.s. forest service davis richard c. encyclopedia american forest conservation history macmillan collier macmillan isbn felius marleen cattle misset isbn flickinger michael c. steven w. drew encyclopedia bioprocess technology fermentation john wiley goodman robert m. encyclopedia crop science m. dekker isbn goreham gary encyclopedia america abc-clio isbn hanelt peter r. buttner rudolf mansfield institut pflanzengenetik kulturpflanzenforschung gatersleben germany mansfeld 's encyclopedia horticultural crops springer isbn heldman dennis r. encyclopedia biological engineering marcel dekker isbn hillel daniel jerry l. hatfield encyclopedia elsevier/academic isbn holton james r. judith a. curry a. pyle encyclopedia atmospheric sciences academic isbn howard philip h. hearth taub printup handbook environmental degradation rates lewis isbn johnson warren t. howard h. lyon c. s. koehler insects comstock associates isbn knobil ernst jimmy d. neill encyclopedia academic isbn lal r. encyclopedia soil science taylor francis isbn lederberg joshua encyclopedia academic isbn tony andrew lawson ultimate visual successful plant harmony firefly isbn maloy otis c. timothy d. murray encyclopedia plant pathology wiley isbn melhorn heinz encyclopedia springer isbn montgomery john h. agrochemicals desk reference crc isbn nau jim ball seed germination ball isbn plimmer jack r. encyclopedia wiley-interscience isbn quattrocchi umberto crc world dictionary common names scientific names crc/taylor francis isbn roginski hubert john w. puquay p. f. fox encyclopedia dairy sciences academic isbn schapsmeier edward l. frederick h. schapsmeier encyclopedia agricultural history greenwood scharpf robert u. s. forest service diseases pacific coast conifers forest service u.s. dept isbn solomon j. d. u.s. dept forest service guide insect borers north american broadleaf trees u.s. dept forest service stickney robert r. encyclopedia wiley isbn talbot ross historical international food agencies fao wfp wfc ifad scarecrow isbn thomas brian denis j. murphy brian g. murray encyclopedia plant sciences elsevier academic isbn u. s. drug fda drug law institute wexler philip bruce d. anderson ann peyster encyclopedia elsevier academic isbn wrigley colin w. harold corke charles e. walker encyclopedia grain science elsevier academic isbn albala ken world encyclopedia greenwood isbn claiborne craig york encyclopedia considine douglas m. glenn d. considine production encyclopedia van nostrand coyle l. patrick jr.. encyclopedia facts file encyclopedia engineering avi publishing encyclopedia avi encyclopedia avi ensminger audrey h. nutrition encyclopedia pegus francis f. j. encyclopedia food science wiley isbn horn jane janet fletcher cooking z. ortho hui y. h. encyclopedia wiley hui y. h. j. d. culbertson handbook food science taylor francis isbn kraig bruce colleen taylor sen. street food abc-clio isbn macrae robert encyclopedia nutrition academic mariani john f. dictionary drink hearst montagne prosper robert j. courtine larousse gastronomique all-new edition world 's greatest culinary encyclopedia rev crown stobart tom cook encyclopedia harper nutrition ensminger audrey h. nutrition encyclopedia pegus nutrition encyclopedia pegus margen sheldon wellness encyclopedia nutrition buy store prepare variety rebus sinai medicine complete nutrition martin 's press tver david f. percy russell nutrition encyclopedia van nostrand winick myron columbia encyclopedia nutrition putnam yudin john penguin encyclopedia nutrition viking wines alexis lichine encyclopedia wines spirits 5th ed. knopf grossman guide wines beers spirits 7th ed. scribner hugh johnson encyclopedia wine simon schuster hugh johnson 's world atlas wine simon schuster robinson jancis oxford oxford university press isbn schoonmaker frank frank schoonmaker encyclopedia wine rev morrow adelman george encyclopedia neuroscience birkhauser boston fishbein morris fishbein encyclopedia h. s. struttman who marquis who who issn drugs plumb donald c. plumb 's veterinary drug handbook pharmavet distributed wiley isbn albert hofmann john r. baker psychoactive plants ethnopharmacology park street press isbn stafford peter psychedelics encyclopedia ronin swarbrick james james c. boylan encyclopedia pharmaceutical marcel dekker drug evans glen encyclopedia drug abuse facts file fay john alcohol/drug abuse dictionary encyclopedia charles c. thomas o'brien robert morris chaftetz encyclopedia alcoholism facts file accomasso v. enciclopedia della medicina italian vallardi a. isbn ammer christine gesundheitslexikon frau anatomie diagnose therapie medikamente hormone schwangerschaft geburt seelische gesundheit dt taschenbuch-verlag isbn axt-gadermann michaela bertelsmann das gesundheitslexikon wissen-media-verlag isbn baert albert l. encyclopedia diagnostic imaging springer isbn beers mark h. fletcher andrew j manuel merck french larousse isbn breslow lester encyclopedia public health macmillan usa isbn bullough vern l. encyclopedia birth abc-clio isbn fermie peter shepherd stephen kelly robert f. family health encyclopedia comprehensive guide whole family 's health needs lorenz isbn fink george encyclopedia elsevier isbn gullotta thomas p. bloom martin encyclopedia primary prevention promotion springer isbn hamburger jean jean-philippe leporrier michel petite french flammarion jacoby david b. youngson r. m. encyclopedia family health marshall cavendish isbn kipman simon-daniel dictionnaire critique des termes french wolters kluwer france isbn langer jerk w. politikens bog om barnets sygdomme gyldendals bogklubber isbn loue sana sajatovic martha encyclopedia aging public health springer isbn loue sana sajatovic martha encyclopedia immigrant springer isbn lovejoy frederick h. new child health encyclopedia delacorte isbn macmillan encyclopedia macmillan marshall cavendish encyclopedia family health marshall cavendish navarra tova encyclopedia vitamins minerals supplements infobase isbn ohm curic anton gesundheitslexikon z. krankheiten und ihren symptomen naturheilverfahren vorsorge eco verlag gmbh isbn qa collectif comprendre soigner french isbn quevauvilliers jacques perlemuter perlemuter gabriel dictionnaire french elsevier masson isbn reiche dagmar roche-lexikon medizin urban fischer isbn reuter peter springer lexikon medizin springer de isbn rizzoli grande enciclopedia rizzoli salute e del benessere con cd-rom italian rizzoli isbn ronzio robert encyclopedia nutrition good health infobase isbn rothenberg robert e. enciclopedia medica garzanti italian garzanti turkington carol mitchell deborah r. encyclopedia alzheimer disease infobase isbn u.s. national library medicine medlineplus encyclopedia wagman richard j. health encyclopedia j.g ferguson pub isbn wellness encyclopedia houghton mifflin physical wynbrandt james mark d. ludman encyclopedia genetic disorders birth defects facts file hearing turkington carol allen sussman encyclopedia deafness hearing disorders facts file van cleve john v. gallaudet encyclopedia deafness mcgraw-hill vision sardegna jill t. otis paul encyclopedia blindness vision impairment facts file ammer christine 's health concise encyclopedia facts file foley denise eileen nechas encyclopedia emotional healing rodale bodies ourselves rev simon schuster medicine bailey hamilton w. j. bishop harold ellis bailey bishop notable names lewis isbn bendiner jessica elmer bendiner biographical facts file isbn berkow robert merck manual diagnosis therapy merck bremer sydney jeffrey h. miller william broughton encyclopedia academic isbn bynum w. f. helen bynum dictionary medical biography greenwood isbn clayman charles american medical association encyclopedia medicine random house delves peter j. ivan m. roitt encyclopedia academic isbn fischer isidor biographisches lexikon jahre ganten detlev klaus ruckpaul encyclopedic molecular medicine springer isbn gomez joan dictionary symptoms rev stein griffith h. winter complete guide symptoms illness surgery price stern sloan hafner arthur wayne fred w. hunter b. michael tarpey directory american physicians medical practitioners brief biographical sketches american medical association 's deceased physician masterfile american medical association isbn hirsch august ernst julius gurlt a. wernich w. haberling biographisches lexikon zeiten urban schwarzenberg jorde lynn b. encyclopedia john wiley isbn kahl gene technology genomics wiley-vch isbn kaufman martin stuart galishoff todd lee savitt dictionary american medical biography greenwood isbn kazazian haig h. john wiley wiley molecular medicine john wiley isbn kaufman martin joellen watson hawkins loretta p. higgins alice howell friedman dictionary greenwood isbn kelly howard a. walter l. burrage dictionary american medical biography eminent physicians canada london d. appleton leroy francis nobel prize recipients chemistry marcel dekker isbn beatrice scarecrow isbn magner lois n. medical practitioners bio-bibliographical sourcebook greenwood isbn who martin edward a. peter froggatt biographical encyclopedia medical travel authors edwin mellen isbn meyers robert a. encyclopedia molecular cell biology molecular medicine wiley-vch verlag isbn miller sigmund symptoms complete encyclopedia crowell mosby encyclopedia rev penguin usa munk william g. h. brown richard robertson royal college london comprising biographical sketches eminent physicians annals royal college london pagel julius biographisches lexikon jahrhunderts urban schwarzenberg physician desk reference economics pinzon soledad mata carlos zolla mexico diccionario medicina tradicional mexicana instituto nacional indigenista isbn g. p. encyclopedic wiley-liss isbn riott ivan m. peter j delves encyclopedia immunology academic rosenfeld isadore symptoms simon schuster rothenberg robert encyclopedia rev galahad scrivener laurice j. suzanne barnes biographical dictionary women healers midwives oryx isbn talbot c. h. eugene ashby hammond medical practitioners england biographical register wellcome historical medical library tver david f. howard f. hunt encyclopedic dictionary medicine routledge chapman walton john oxford companion medicine oxford webster john g. encyclopedia devices instrumentation wiley windsor laura lynn abc-clio isbn book/rush-presbyterian-st. luke medical center encyclopedia your guide good health world book history bynum w. f. roy porter companion encyclopedia history medicine routledge mcgrew roderick e. margaret p. mcgrew encyclopedia history mcgraw-hill griffith h. winter complete guide tests fisher pinckney cathey edward r. pinckney do-it-yourself testing facts file pinckney cathey edward r. pinckney patient guide tests facts file shtasel philip tests diagnostic procedures harpercollins sobel david tom ferguson people 's book tests summit bricklin mark practical encyclopedia healing rev rodale bricklin mark rodale encyclopedia natural home remedies rodale murray michael t. joseph e. pizzorno encyclopedia medicine prima olsen kristin encyclopedia alternative care pocket visual encyclopedia healing rodale wade carlson encyclopedia symptoms ailments remedies parker who veterinary veterinary medical association avma veterinary medical association veterinary medical association 2006-. [ concise veterinary dictionary oxford griffin james tom gore horse owner veterinary handbook howell book house merck veterinary manual merck plumb donald c. plumb 's veterinary drug handbook pharmavet distributed wiley isbn geoffrey black veterinary dictionary barnes noble microbiology britton gabriel encyclopedia environmental microbiology wiley isbn lederberg joshua encyclopedia academic isbn prehistoric dixon dougal macmillan encyclopedia dinosaurs prehistoric animals visual who who prehistoric macmillan encyclopedia prehistoric mcgraw-hill shells abbott tucker peter dance compendium seashells melacologists collector encyclopedia shells mcgraw-hill rehder harald alfred james h. carmichael jr. carol nehring audubon audubon society field north american seashells knopf isbn wye kenneth f. encyclopedia shells facts file references guide reference american library association retrieved december kister kenneth f. kister encyclopedias phoenix oryx isbn kroeger alice bertha isadore gilbert mudge guide reference chicago american library association sheehy eugene p. guide reference tenth chicago london american library association isbn biology portal biology biologists life forms enable life basic processes biology major disciplines natural science a-level biology absorption spectrum coa acrosome reaction action potential activation energy active site active transport adaptive radiation adenosine atp adenosine adp aerobic respiration affinity chromatography alexander fleming alfred russel wallace allele frequency allosteric site alpha helix ames amino acid adenosine monophosphate amp anaerobic respiration andrew huxley antibiotic resistance antigenic determinant antoni leeuwenhoek apical meristem arabidopsis-arachnid artificial life aseptic technique asexual reproduction atpase atp avian influenza bacterial conjugation barr beta sheet biodesign biological dispersal biological tissue basic topics blunt end biological membrane biological organisation biological psychology biological tissues blast blood cell c3 carbon fixation c4 calvin cam cam carbon cycle carbon fixation carolus linnaeus casparian casy cell biology cell division cell growth cell nucleus cell wall cellular differentiation cellular respiration chaperone protein charles robert darwin chi square test chloroplast membrane chromosomal crossover circadian rhythm circulatory system citric acid cycle classical genetics codon usage bias common descent communicable disease community ecology competitive exclusion principle competitive inhibition computational biology concentration gradient conservation biology continental drift convergent evolution cooperativity cellular respiration cork cambium cotransport metabolism coulter craig venter ct c-terminus cyclic electron flow dendritic cell dengue fever developmental biology digestive system digital organism dihybrid cross disulfide bridge dna dna dna dna double helix down drosophila e. ecdysone ecological genetics edge effect edward jenner edward syndrome effective electromagnetic energy electron transport chain embryonal development emerson emmer endergonic reaction endomembrane system endoplasmic reticulum endosymbiotic theory energy trap engelmann environmental heterogeneity environmental science epidermis ernst haeckel evolutionary biology evolutionary developmental biology evolutionary tree ewens exergonic reaction experimental evolution sequence tag est fad fadh fadh2 feedback inhibition fehling fick 's law fitness landscape fluid mosaic model food web mouth disease francis crick francis galton free energy fundamental niche g3p gel electrophoresis genetic drift gene duplication genetic code genetic equilibrium genetic fingerprint genetic recombination gene regulatory network genetic carrier gene therapy genome project geologic time george w. beadle gobind khorana golgi gondwana gravitational biology gregor mendel ground tissue growth curve guthrie hacek hardy-weinberg hela hepadnaviridae hepatitis b hereditary disease hfr hill reaction homologous recombination horizontal gene household gene genome project humoral immunity hydrolytic enzyme immune cell immune system infectious disease carrier inner matrix intermediate filament intermembrane space invasive species ion channel james watson jean-baptiste lamarck k-selection kary mullis keystone species kinetic energy klinefelter knock-out mouse konrad lorenz krebs citric acid cycle lac lactic acid autotroph lambda phage white blood cells life form light reactions limbic system lineweaver-burke-diagram long-term potentiation louis pasteur lynn margulis lyon major histocompatibility mhc malpighi marburg virus marcello malpighi marfan marine biology mass extinction mathematical biology membrane transporter memory cell mendelian michaelis-menten mitchell mitochondrial membrane mitotic spindle modern evolutionary synthesis molecular biology molecular clock molecular evolution molecular genetics molecular phylogeny monoclonal antibody mri mtt muller 's ratchet mutational meltdown mutualism nad nadh nadph natural environment natural selection nervous system neural plate neural tube neurospora crassa neutral theory molecular evolution nitrogen cycle non-competitive inhibition non cyclic electron flow n-terminus nuclear lamina okazaki oscar hertwig oswald avery biochemical techniques oxidative decarboxylation pangaea parallel evolution passive transport patau paternity test pcr pcr pentose phosphate pathway peptide bond peripheral protein pfeffer phospholipid bilayer ii phylogenetic tree plant physiology plant sexuality plasma membrane plate tectonics point mutation polymerase chain reaction population dynamics population ecology population genetics potential energy primary nutritional groups primary structure protein biosynthesis protein translocation proton pump punnett pyruvate oxidation red queen redox reaction redox system renal replication bubble reproductive system restriction enzyme reverse genetics rflp rhesus factor rna rna robert koch er rubp rudolf steiner sarcoplasmic reticulum scientific classification secondary metabolite secondary structure seed plant sewall wright sexual reproduction sexual selection signal transduction sir charles lyell sister chromatid skin cell er hans spemann ssri stem cell sticky end structural biology structural gene substrate-level phosphorylation surface area-to-volume ratio tertiary structure theodor bilharz theodor boveri thomas hunt morgan thomas malthus tobacco mosaic virus tobacco mosaic virus trait transcription factor transcriptional regulation transgressive phenotype transport vesicle traube trophic level turner varicella-zoster virus vascular cambium vascular tissue vesicular stomatitis virus vestibular system viral classification viral evolution visible light wobble base pair x-ray list biochemistry topics list molecular biology topics list evolutionary biology topics list list biological websites list gene families biochemistry chemical processes biochemistry applications testing ames food additive dna pregnancy urine sample blood sample human chorionic gonadotropin .this hormone uterine walls breast cancer-1 brca1 breast cancer-2 brca2 frequent rate general population prenatal potential genetic defects detect chromosomal abnormalities down birth defects spina bifida pku phenylketonuria pku metabolic disorder phenylalanine hydroxylase absence mental retardation genetic biochemists human insulin human insulin cloning dolly adult animal cells original adult sheep 6-year-old ewe gene healthy gene commonly dna healthy gene 4-year old patient immune system rare genetic disease scid branches branches animal biochemistry biochemistry molecular biology cell biology metabolism immunology genetics enzymology biotechnology bioluminescence molecular enzymatic chemistry genetic pharmaceuticals endocrinology neurochemistry hematology nutrition photosynthesis environmental toxicology history main article history major carbohydrates lipids fatty acid essential oils nucleic dna rna proteins amino acid lysine peptide primary structure secondary structure tertiary structure chemical properties molecular bond covalent bond ionic bond hydrogen bond ethyl molecular charge polar ph base oxidation structural cell wall enzymes enzyme activity enzyme kinetics enzyme inhibition proteolysis proteasome kinase membranes fluid mosaic model osmosis phospholipids isoprene ion channel proton pump electron transport ion gradient energy absorption spectrum action spectrum photosynthesis light reaction dark reaction fermentation acetyl-coa lactic acid cellular adenosine atp nadh chemosynthesis regulation auxin signal transduction growth factor transcription factor protein kinase sh3 malfunctions tumor suppressor gene receptors integrin transmembrane receptor ion channel techniques mass spectrometry x-ray diffraction southern blot gram surface plasmon resonance microscale thermophoresis virtual biochemistry cell biology biochemistry full text berg tymoczko stryer ncbi biochemistry full text garrett grisham allometry body size otto snell d'arcy thompson form julian huxley allometry well-known study statistical shape analysis theoretical developments practical applications differential growth rates organism 's body various insect species hercules beetle overall body size disproportionate increase power law logarithmic form methods data use type major axis regression major axis regression squares regression log body mass particular kind principal component analysis allometry studies shape differences different size common shape size changes studies ontogenetic allometry model organisms lack parental care large range body size adult stage lizards exhibit allometric changes examines shape variation static allometry comparisons evolutionary allometry phylogenetic comparative methods isometric isometric proportional relationships size changes evolutionary time brief period isometric square-cube law surface area active tissue surface area respiratory organs physical demands similarly cross-sectional area hypothetical organism muscle loads isometric null hypothesis physiological factors allometric growth allometric allometric classic example galileo dialogues concerning body size increases allometry body mass body length snout-vent total length body mass statistical analyses negative allometry conversely surface area property scales positive allometry positive allometry occurs monitor lizards varanidae determining variables needs dataset deviates dimensional analysis saying mass scales isometric slope geometric similarity model wilson dimensional dimensional examples m-mass l-length v-volume characteristic length case l your double-logarithmic plot l3/ l1 l3 l1 straight line straight line data transformations comparing head length different results body length different characteristics common way analyze data linear regression analyze trends squares regression % confidence intervals major axis analysis different results confidence intervals imaginary animal significant value animal versus positive allometry certain organism mass cross-sectional area csa l2 alternatively power regression plot fit power curve multiple ways data points statistical analyses physiological biochemical processes heart rate respiration rate maximum reproduction rate surface area metabolic rate individual animal metabolic animal 's basal metabolic rate bmr animal 's own body mass power-law dependence overall metabolic rate negative allometry kleiber 's law mass-specific metabolic rates heart rates straight line elephant curve metabolic rates internal structure blown-up gorilla blown-up mouse max kleiber allometric equation bmr body mass statistical body mass metabolic rate body mass bmr body mass animal assumes major role bmr environmental conditions bmr common evolutionary history close taxonomic relationship muroid rodents vole type account taxonomy warm dry habitat bmr warm wet dense habitat bmr larger bmr analyses physiological adaptations environmental changes energy individual 's body design metabolic scope maximum rate particular species oxygen consumption oxygen vo2 maximum oxygen consumption vo2 oxygen body size organ system dimensions vo2 power law dependence universal patterns diverse animal taxonomy across broad range allometric relations log-log scale body mass intermediate body size allometric muscle characteristics wide range animal sizes muscle sizes environmental constraints muscle tissue contractile characteristics physiological muscles affects muscle fibers intrinsic speed maximum power muscle recruitment varies inverse proportion cube root intrinsic frequency inter-species allometric relations such ecological variables maximal reproduction rate dynamic energy budget theory metabolic theory such ideas allometry methods allometry locomotive principles broad range such research animal locomotion different gaits allometric extant animals evolutionary algorithms realistic hypotheses locomotive patterns extinct species remarkable similarities allometric locomotion involves relative sizes limb structures different speeds patterns froude incorporate measures stride frequency alexander froude-number gait patterns dynamically similar gaits constant coefficients relate linear dimensions time intervals mathematical description gait b vice versa different sizes similar fashion whenever dynamic similarity hypothesis animal gait patterns accurate heuristic sizes utilize spring mechanisms locomotive systems energy cost allometric study spring mechanisms limb compliance varies body size general limb kinematics principles alexander different sizes froude similar gait patterns duty different animals froude dynamic similarity hypothesis states different sizes similar fashion whenever body limb dynamics leg body mass peak leg shortens peak displacement mass-specific work rate allometric technical section large effect organism 's locomotion tiny organisms uses flagella blue whale fluid interacts external boundaries drag determines distinct flow patterns laminar flow turbulent creates vortices scaling affects locomotion oxygen consumption gram body size decreases body size knut schmidt-nielson laminar flow < 0.5x106 turbulent flow increases turbulence reynolds reynolds laminar flow mr. g.a steven phosphorescent activity surface velocity fluid changes velocity increases laminar flow density length surface area total surface v2/2 v cf laminar flow reynolds number [ axial reynolds laminar flow turbulent flow scaling marine mammals marine organisms atmospheric oxygen heart lung volume metabolic function aquatic size heart proportional mammals total body mass small mouse whale heart weight mb body mass lung body mass body mass tidal volume lung volume respiration costs oxygen consumption mb.75 size respiratory cardiovascular systems body mass marine mammals body length large whales body size animals consume unit body mass metabolic advantage marine mammals heart rate mammals reparation costs scales mb.75 body mass time demand traveling long distances deep dives good stamina efficient speed efficient way laminar flow sea water long distances large mammals neutral buoyancy sea water flying similar shape metabolic cost unit body mass absolute speeds fluid dynamics u-shaped metabolic cost small organisms gain advantage uptake energy previous stroke dickinson recycle energy aquatic organisms fluid locomotion allometric allometric allometric relationships allometry arguing analogous concepts biological entities bettencourt observable properties city size gdp speeds scale city population examples allometric laws kleiber 's law metabolic rate body mass heart rate body mass contact area body mass body mass determinants body mass body size evolutionary scale habitat size physiological basic physiological design circulatory system circulatory systems mechanical mechanical maximum allowable size animals tubular endoskeletons hydrostatic skeletons habitat positive correlation body mass top species available land area ecological conditions evolutionary factors small population large predators small prey aquatic environment body mass land animals gravitational weight constraints references fda guidance estimating equivalent dose clinical trials new drugs archaeobiology ancient times archaeological materials blanket term animal osteology specifically archaeobiology archaeological sites archaeobiological excavations human presence flora fauna archaeology prime interest particular place plant studies faunal studies collection phytoliths water deposits different things certain time period animal century archaeologists archaeologists microfauna macrofauna past human diet bacteria protists archaeology bacteria protists separate animal kingdoms bacteria prokaryotic microorganisms eukaryotic organisms special techniques archaeologists lab analysis optical microscopes micro organic archaeologists depending paleomycology paleomycology fossil record past fungi evolutionary past contemporary fungi resemble dominican parasitic fungi fungi resemble modern day fungi trichomycetes trichomycetes ancient fungi osteology archaeology osteologists archeology reconstruct bones past civilizations osteology cultural background modern archaeologist uncover daily activities past histories archaeology biology paleoneurology references earth earth current species range unicellular organism multicellular organism unicellular organisms microscopic size humans multicellular organisms prokaryotes separate domains bacteria archaea eukaryotic membrane-bound cell nucleus additional membrane-bound compartments endosymbiotic bacteria fungi thomas cavalier-smith branching bacterial phyla neomura archaea eukarya neomura bacteria actinobacteria etymologyedit english current definition oxford english dictionary long tradition semanticsedit word organism exclude viruses possible man-made non-organic life forms viruses biochemical machinery host cell chambers online reference broad definition multicellular terms whole hierarchical assemblage example circulatory caenorhabditis individual cells social unit non-cellular viruses autonomous reproduction cellular organisms independent survival independent metabolism obligatory intracellular parasites molecules characteristic organic compounds autonomous reproduction host cell inanimate matter viruses sustain independent metabolism own genes similar mechanisms organisms evolve common argument self- reproduce host cells host cells host cells viral evolution viral megagenomes energy metabolism protein synthesis protein metabolism cellular origin horizontal gene viral hosts organizational alpha taxonomy taxa broad scheme hierarchical order homo latin binomial modern humans species sapiens different species red wolf canis lupus rufus grey wolf canis canis homo homo homo extinct thousands h. h. fertile progeny eventually relevant kingdom animalia certain genetic structural characteristics particular family particular phylum challenging task plant viruses animal viruses respiratory viruses nucleic acid content capsid symmetry chemistryedit organisms complex chemical systems chemical processes entire organisms dna-based organisms internal functions chemical phenomena large organic molecules organisms complex systems chemical compounds wide variety organisms chemical systems individual units release energy autotrophs usable energy organic compounds inorganic compounds organic compounds primary chemical element chemical properties great affinity small atoms carbon atoms small size multiple bonds organic life small three-atom compounds carbon dioxide large chains store data nucleic acids transmit information macromoleculesedit compounds nucleic acids nucleic deoxyribonucleic acid dna store genetic data particular sequence different types particular sequence particular amino acid dna particular protein chemical properties amino acids particular manner particular function protein functions enzymes structural regulatory transcription factors cell cycle signaling defensive immune system unusual amino acids selective permeability phospholipid membraine specific compounds multicellular organisms mediate communication carbohydrates proteins.in fact structureedit organisms consist monomeric units multicellular specific functions such cells basic types nervous tissue muscle tissue connective tissue tissue work particular function organ system multicellular organisms consist organ systems celledit cell theory schleiden schwann vital functions hereditary information cell functions prokaryotic eukaryotic cells multicellular organisms prokaryotic cells lack nuclear membrane dna eukaryotic cells nuclear membranes electric potential salty cytoplasm cell volume dna hereditary material rna various proteins cell 's primary machinery similar characteristics reproduction cell division binary fission dna rna metabolism raw materials building cell components chemical energy organic molecules metabolic pathways internal stimuli nutrient levels cell cell surface membrane contains proteins lipid bilayer basic parameters life span evolutionedit universal ancestor recent organism earth recent common ancestor mrca current life earth lua paleoarchean earth billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks greenland microbial mat fossils billion-year-old sandstone australia earth information early development different fields planetary science earth earth geological processes earth common ancestor ancestral gene evidence common descent darwin 's day visible observation morphologic similarities strong evidence common ancestor nucleic acids genetic material amino acids genetic code minor deviations nucleic acid sequences common ancestry w. ford doolittle genetic code genetic code variation horizontal gene universal ancestor formal mathematical test genetic record universal use genetic code amino acids common ancestor 's existence reproductionedit sexual current eukaryotes dacks rogers phylogenetic analysis common ancestor early form evolutionary tree ramesh malik common ancestor furthermore ancient asexuals likely sexual present day asexual amoeboid lineages natural bacterial transformation involves dna dna recipient chromosome natural bacterial transformation primitive sexual process transformation bacterial adaptation accidental occurrence numerous gene products natural competence complex process transformation common mode dna prokaryotic species history chemical evolution self-catalytic chemical reactions origin biological evolution little certain traits cellular structure genetic code common ancestor fundamental cellular processes scientific consensus archaea bacteria eukaryota attempts rna complex systems oxygenic photosynthesis subsequent emergence red beds necessary prerequisite aerobic cellular respiration simple multicellular plants cambrian organismal diversity burgess shale major body plans modern animals hox 's land ecosystems evolutionary process fossil modern life geological earth studies david reznick california riverside natural selection fossil record such comparative studies time scales field experiments fossil record horizontal dna sequence recent horizontal diverse species phylogenetic history evolutionary trees biologist gogarten original metaphor recent genome research different histories individual genomes rich exchange cooperative effects hgt synthetic organisms edit modern terms new multicellular organism new species organism ethical debate bioethics ethics designer baby articles j. craig venter synthetic bacterial genome mycoplasma dna yeast recombination dna natural fragments synthetic genomics commercial uses evolution referencesedit bbcnews september citat animal kingdoms spaceref.com july scientists discover methane ice worms mexico floor eberly methane ice worms mexico floor publication quality photos artikel methane ice worms hesiocaeca colonizing fossil fuel reserves spaceref.com may redefining know hesiocaeca charles fisher penn remarkable creature methane ice mexico bbcnews december 'space bugs citat bacillus staphylococcus pasteuri ... engyodontium dr wainwright uv bbcnews june ancient organism cell evolution citat interactive syllabus biology bi saint anselm jacob feldman stramenopila ncbi taxonomy saint anselm survey kingdoms citat number bacteria diversity ... protista diversity ... species indexing world 's species earth baseline dataset global biodiversity simple access point data systems direct species-links fungus carpeting square kilometers oregon tree frequent biomass biological organisms biomass species biomass community biomass average mass unit area total mass natural mass salmon fishery salmon biomass total wet weight organic mass actual weight biological tissues scientific applications earth tonnes c annual primary production c/yr dna base pairs earth possible approximation global biodiversity total mass ttc trillion tons ecological ecological pyramid graphical representation biological productivity trophic levels biomass pyramid shows trophic level productivity pyramid shows trophic level ecological pyramid ecological community primary producers primary producers inorganic chemicals energy-rich molecules primary production various trophic levels apex predators trophic level new biomass ninety percent metabolic processes energy loss productivity pyramids limits food chains biomass pyramids terrestrial terrestrial trophic level examples terrestrial producers food chain temperate grassland primary producers primary consumers secondary consumers small cats tertiary consumers large cats biomass pyramid decreases terrestrial biomass trophic levels food chain phytoplankton phytoplankton main primary producers marine food chain phytoplankton inorganic carbon microscopic animals zooplankton food chain small crustaceans small zooplankton predatory zooplankters forage fish small schooling filter food chain trophic level predatory fish marine mammals consume forage fish examples apex consume seals shortfin mako sharks consume swordfish trophic level baleen consume zooplankton food chain trophic levels marine environments biomass pyramids forage fish primary producers ocean 's primary producers tiny phytoplankton small mass fast rate primary production terrestrial primary producers marine cyanobacteria photosynthetic organisms prochlorococcus prochlorococcus plentiful species earth surface seawater worldwide prochlorococcus bacterium accounts earth 's atmosphere forms part ocean food chain bacterial bacterial cells bacterial cells fresh water trillion trillion earth total biomass total biomass bacteria exceeds global global biomass level groups global biomass c. tonnes c plant biomass animal biomass plant biomass land animals animal biomass plant biomass ocean plant biomass ocean animals humans earth 's dry biomass successful animal species antarctic euphausia fresh biomass domestic cattle small aquatic crustaceans animal biomass science estimates total world fish biomass global biomass global new biomass global primary production satellite observations satellites difference vegetation index ndvi terrestrial habitats scan sea-surface chlorophyll levels c/yr terrestrial primary production c/yr oceanic primary production total photoautotrophic primary production earth c/yr land production permanent ice significant difference annual production oceanic autotrophs total biomass autotrophs global proportion terrestrial freshwater ecosystems generate global net primary production global producers productivity rates biomass natural organic matter productivity primary nutritional groups standing stock lake pohjalampi biomass manipulation study list aquatic animals referencesedit foley monfreda ramankutty zaks planetary pie proceedings national academy usa download haberl erb kh krausmann gaube bondeau plutzar gingrich lucht fischer-kowalski quantifying human appropriation net primary production earth 's terrestrial ecosystems proceedings national academy usa download purves william k orians gordon h biology ed w. h. freeman isbn counting trophic biomass high trophic-level fishes atlantic european legislation chemical substance harmful organism environmental protection epa different definition diverse group poisonous substances animal health epa plant protection products veterinary medicines plant protection products plant protection products regards substances non food regards substances active substance biocidal product active substances chemical compounds biocidal active substances non-active co-formulants final product biocidal professional and/or non-professional consumers active substances relative high toxicity active substances low toxicity co2 biocidal activity certain specific conditions such cases biocidal product active substance biocidal activity co2 system trap biocidal products antibacterial substances etc biocides biocidal short-life biocide industrial water treatment natural biocides biocide entire world uses europe biocidal products different product types pt product types bpr main groups pest control biocidal products main group contains products human hygiene pt veterinary hygiene pt main group contains wood preservatives pt main group pest control contains rodenticides pt pt main group biocidal products pt active substance product types example sulfuryl fluoride wood preservative pt pt biocides biological infestation certain types quaternary ammonium compounds industrial water systems poisonous chlorine gas water treatment alternative methods hypochlorite solutions release chlorine sodium dichloro-s-triazinetrione tablet form small amounts industrial water systems chlorine atoms hydrolyze hypochlorous acid hocl general biocide halogenated hydantoin compounds biocidal surfaces wide range e. o157 h7 staphylococcus mrsa staphylococcus clostridium environmental protection different antimicrobial copper alloys e. o157 h7 staphylococcus mrsa staphylococcus enterobacter pseudomonas public hygienic measure antimicrobial copper alloys healthcare facilities subway transit system hazards biocidal products pose significant risk human health great care appropriate protective clothing significant adverse effects natural environment anti-fouling organic tin compounds tbt marine eco-systems such materials recreational vessels naval vessels disposal classification classification biocidal products regulation eu bpr product types application categories multiple subgroups main group disinfectants general biocidal products product-type human hygiene biocidal products product-type private area public health area disinfectants biocidal products product-type veterinary hygiene biocidal products product-type area disinfectants product-type drinking water disinfectants main group preservatives product-type in-can product-type film product-type wood product-type fibre materials preservatives product-type masonry product-type preservatives processing systems product-type slimicides product-type metalworking-fluid main group pest product-type rodenticides product-type avicides product-type molluscicides product-type piscicides product-type insecticides product-type repellents product-type main group biocidal products product-type antifouling product-type embalming current global demand consumer goods us $ previous year affected global economic crisis industry overall stricter regulations market position important application area quantitative terms public water treatment legislation eu regulatory framework directive biocidal products directive bpd bpd biocidal products regulation bpr july application date september technical notes guidance tnsg bpr common understanding according eu biocidal products need authorisation authorities eu member states active substances bpr reach regulation registration evaluation authorisation restrictions chemicals risk assessment process reach bpr chemicals echa risk characterization methodologies biocides legislation regulation world trade organisation wto global harmonised classification labelling ghs oecd oecd iuclid unified information data echa oecd pesticide fifra subsequent amendments drugs cosmetic plant protection products europe plant protection products regulatory framework safety efsa risk assessment intrinsic properties adverse effects utmost care rodent control non-target species predatory birds long half-life target species high toxicity non-target species pyrethroids unspecific toxic action non-target aquatic organisms adverse effects risk assessment eu regulatory framework high level animal health risk assessment biocidal products central element risk assessment biocidal products utilization instructions application method biocidal substance humans biocidal products different ways domestic settings biocidal products industrial sectors professional uses biocidal products private use non-professional users potential exposure biocidal products general public food chain residential exposure particular vulnerable sub-populations pregnant women domestic animals biocidal products furthermore dermal contact outdoor use indoor use sewage system upon biocidal substance sewage treatment plant stp physical chemical properties sewage sludge soil amendments soil compartment alternatively water phase stp water compartment surface water etc risk environment focuses environmental compartments hazard assessments key species food chain specific compartment special concern stp removal processes large variety biocidal applications exposure scenarios possible degradation pathways accurate risk assessment endocrine disruption pbt-properties mixture toxicity biocidal active substances combination effect real risk approaches mixture toxicity assessments regulatory purposes advocate assumptions mixture effect direct proportion strict sense compared available assumptions concentration addition model dose addition model toxicity data effect data lc50 ec50 pnec ael furthermore precautionary approach available predictive concepts potential occurrence special case substance increases substance b currently predictive approaches gaps such effects mixture composition exposure concentrations hamper predictive approaches precautionary approach risk assessment eu large part specific emission scenario documents esds product type esds case exposure assessment subsequent refinements esds oecd task force biocides oecd exposure assessment task force joint centre oecd esds european union system evaluation substances euses it risk assessment principles technical guidance document risk assessment biocides tgd euses government authorities research institutes chemical companies efficient assessments general risks active substance active substances reference source active substance active substance alternative source active substance review programme active substances location and/or active substance technical equivalence different sources needs chemical composition hazard profile active substance secondary source active substance biocidal products active substance adverse effects product fulfils efficacy assessments essential part risk assessment efficacy assessment target organisms effective concentrations likely concentrations active substance possible occurrence cross resistance unacceptable risks human health appropriate management strategies needs fundamental elements risk management measures risk communication eu member states severe effects human health and/or food stocks rodent activity leptospirosis food industry premises telephone poles non-pesticide ecological references literature wilfried paulus directory microbicides protection materials processes springer netherland berlin isbn epa inventory biocides denmark wittmer ik scheidegger r bader hp singer h stamm loss urban biocides agricultural pesticides environment christensen fm eisenreich ej rasmussen k riego-sintes j sokull-kluettgen van plassche ej experience chemicals management integrating policy environmental scher sccs scenihr opinion toxicity assessment mixtures european commission directorate environment epa pesticide programs chemicals biocides product regulation efsa safety organisation co-operation oecd biocides website us drug kills microorganisms antimicrobial agents antimicrobial medicines antimicrobial chemotherapy antimicrobial medicines antimicrobial prophylaxis main classes antimicrobial agents nonselective antimicrobials wide range synthetic antimicrobials medical professionals medical literature antibacterial bactericidal agents bacteriostatic agents stall bacterial growth antimicrobial properties common practice egyptians greeks specific molds plant extracts louis pasteur jules francois joubert alexander fleming natural antimicrobial fungus penicillium streptococcus penicillin infectious diseases strep throat antimicrobial agents wide range infectious diseases antibacterials antibacterials bacterial infections certain antibacterials gut flora negative impact antibacterial use consumption gut flora stool antibiotic treatment clostridium difficile infections clinical use 20th century bacterial infections antibiotic era pneumatic application nitroglycerine drugs effective agents new antimicrobial agents clinical use enormous expense new drugs paralleled antibacterials antibiotic agents viral respiratory tract infections antibiotic-resistant pathogens serious threat global public health resistance problem demands antibacterial agents pathogenic bacteria current antibacterials possible strategies diverse environments identify bioactive compounds small-molecule libraries bacterial targets antifungals antifungals athlete 's foot fungal cells fungal organism dangerous effects human cells molecular level antifungal drug control mold growth wet home materials sodium surfaces acts antifungal serum hydrogen peroxide thin surface neutralizes mold spore release antifungal agent high humidity areas antifungal surface treatments suppress mold growth e.g general public antivirals antiviral viral infections specific antivirals specific viruses deactivate virus particles antiviral drugs hiv important antiretroviral drugs protease inhibitors herpes cold sores genital herpes nucleoside analogue acyclovir viral a-e hepatotropic viruses antiviral drugs b viruses important targets new influenza treatments neuraminidase inhibitors antiparasitics antiparasitics infectious protozoa serious damage non-pharmaceutical wide range natural compounds organic food products lactic acid citric acid acetic acid beef carcasses e. copper-alloy natural intrinsic antimicrobial properties e. mrsa staphylococcus environmental protection such antibacterial copper alloys public hygienic measure antimicrobial copper alloys healthcare facilities subway transit systems heavy metal cations hg2+ pb2+ antimicrobial activities traditional infectious disease antimicrobial activity plant products pathogenic microorganisms current use essential essential oils herbal pharmacopoeias antimicrobial activity foodborne bacterial pathogens active terpenoid chemicals secondary metabolites prevalent use alternative medicine essential oils mainstream medicine pharmaceutical compounds barriers mainstream medicine poor regulatory oversight quality control antimicrobial according u.s. environmental protection epa insecticide fungicide rodenticide antimicrobial pesticides inanimate objects industrial processes chemical substances antimicrobial pesticide products epa monitors products ascertain efficacy products public health food sanitation environmental surfaces pesticide products unreasonable side certain products epa public health public health products epa sterilizers sporicides will disinfectants destroy inactivate microorganisms difficult form according efficacy data epa general/broad spectrum hospital disinfectant sanitizers reduce antimicrobial pesticide safety according cdc health-care workers safety measures antimicrobial pesticide exposure minimize exposure protective equipment safety glasses additionally environmental protection employees health hazards medical care exposure occurs ozone full article ozone applications ozone municipal drinking-water systems physical heat moist heat microbial life store preserves conventional oven heat such products certain temperature set period harmful microorganisms radiation harmful pathogens common sources food sterilization gamma emitter electron beams ultraviolet water purification systems pond maintenance food sterilization plastics antimicrobial antimicrobial plastic products microban biocide references antimicrobial index antimicrobial agents scientific literature plant extracts pesticide information center [ overview antimicrobials plastic applications burden resistance disease eu-project financial burden antibiotic resistance hospitals animalia paradoxa contradictory animals early editions carl linnaeus seminal work systema naturae paradoxa fantastic creatures medieval bestiaries systema naturae according swedish gunnar broberg natural explanation paradoxa linnaeus classification system cryptic included hydra linnaeus hydra hamburg snake skins rana-piscis south american frog tadpole stage linnaeus systema naturae linnaeus rana genus name pseudis monoceros monodon pelecanus linnaeus [ pelicans ] over-fervent imaginations new world explorers satyrus linnaeus manlike body borometz scythian lamb linnaeus [ ... ] vegetable lamb china sweden phoenix bernicla scottish goose frederick edward hulme ] barnacle-goose tree great article ages draco linnaeus snakelike body lacerta automa mortis linnaeus death-watch pediculus perforates wood manticora antilope [ sic ] lamia siren referencesedit gunnar broberg dragonslayer tijdschrift skandinavistiek arkive global initiative world 's wildlife imagery gathering films audio recordings world 's species digital archive current priority audio-visual profiles iucn list threatened species wildscreen uk-registered educational charity bristol technical platform hewlett packard hp labs digital media systems research programme arkive conservation organisations birdlife international union nature iucn world conservation monitoring centre unep-wcmc nature wwf research institutions history botanic gardens kew smithsonian institution institutional encyclopedia arkive google earth mexico google earth outreach april wildscreen patron sir david attenborough history may uk-based natural history presenter sir david attenborough chief instigator christopher parsons head bbc history parsons november parsons safe haven wildlife films such records public access powerful force environmental awareness scientific names important educational resource conservation tool extinction rates habitat destruction audio-visual wildlife material immediate support major broadcasters bbc granada international state geographic photographic libraries international conservation organisations academic institutes cornell initial feasibility study arkive late 1980s john burton christopher parson 's vision capital development funds lottery opportunities arkive uk millennium retrieval technology hewlett-packard. initial capacity redundant hardware multiple copies multiple sites media available quality prototype site april design iterations formal launch launch date project team fact files multi-media profiles british flora list world conservation union january film clips recognition webby award honoree outstanding calibre educational publishers achievement award year olds catalogue encyclopedia list online encyclopedias macroscopic observatory nature references arkive technical hewlett-packard memorandum understanding encyclopedia heaviest people person 's name peak weight birth date lightest automobiles suzuki alto maruti alto billy benny mccrary guinness records 's world 's heaviest edward bright daniel lambert england yokozuna wwe hawaiian singer happy humphrey professional wrestler carl thompson heaviest man kingdom referencesedit earth various aspects organism 's size genome size organisms group single large organisms barrier reef world 's organism sizes normal size range respective group plantsedit single-stem tree wood volume giant sequoia sequoiadendron sierra nevada california average height multiple-stem banyan thimmamma marrimanu india aspen tree animalsedit cetacea blue whale balaenoptera african bush elephant loxodonta proboscidea land animal various open habitats africa angola shoulder height whole body large whale heaviest terrestrial animals wild land animals african elephant african bush elephant african forest elephant separate species vertebratesedit mammals mammalia edit blue whale land mammal african bush elephant paraceratherium recent estimates palaeoloxodon stem-mammals synapsida edit permian cotylorhynchus carnivorous synapsid anteosaurus africa permian anteosaurus pelycosauria cotylorhynchus predatory pelycosaurus dimetrodon america therapsida moschops non-mammalian therapsid carnivorous therapsid anteosaurus reptiles reptilia edit crocodilia saltwater crocodile crocodylus asia australia adult males saltwater crocodile unconfirmed guinness records large living crocodile lolong philippines february komodo varanus komodo large species indonesian komodo rinca flores gili motang padar monitor lizard family varanidae maximum length rare cases reptile species upper weights dinosaurs dinosauria edit largest prehistoric animals sauropods sauropoda sauropoda heaviest sauropod complete skeleton giraffatitan tanzania humboldt berlin long specimen diplodocus wyoming pittsburgh carnegie history argentina current record-holders argentinosaurus supersaurus sauroposeidon such sauropods bruhathkayosaurus amphicoelias bruhathkayosaurus a. metric tons theropods theropoda complete skeleton tyrannosaurus rex specimen sue dakota field chicago total length body mass estimates giant theropod spinosaurus africa size length estimates mass estimates recent findings favour body mass partial skeletons giganotosaurus 6.5-13.8 tonnes carcharodontosaurus 6.1-15.1 tonnes armored dinosaurs thyreophora ankylosaurus stegosaurus late cretaceous late jurassic america ornithopods ornithopoda shantungosaurus cretaceous shandong peninsula china magnapaulia cretaceous america heaviest non-sauropod dinosaurs ceratopsians ceratopsia triceratops eotriceratops cretaceous america aves edit struthioniformes common ostrich struthio africa arabia large male ostrich common ostrich wild ostriches massive weight eggs fossil record extinct elephant birds aepyornis madagascar elephant birds upper proportions elephant birds dromornis australia 26,000-year-old group dromornithidae carnivorous bird brontornis extinct flightless bird america tallest bird giant moa dinornis moa family zealand ce particular species large elephant bird slender frame argentavis extinct family teratornithidae miocene-aged fossil beds argentina body weight pelagornis comparable size bird species particular birds denser bones flightless bird species kori amphibians amphibia edit chinese giant salamander andrias maximum size dominant tetrapods giant amphibian proto-tetrapods dominant animals prionosuchus frogs anura goliath conraua maximum size snout-to-vent length cane toad bufo frog order invasive species maximum mass rivaling african bullfrog pyxicephalus large frog america american bullfrog svl beelzebufo cretaceous madagascar tree frog australasian tree frog litoria leptodactylidae diverse anuran families large members surinam ceratophrys ceratophrys leptodactylus colombian golden poison frog phyllobates neobatrachia mesobatrachia ancient frogs brachytarsophrys karin asia maximum snout-to-vent length maximum weight caecilians gymnophiona worm-like caecilians colombian thompson 's caecilian caecilia salamanders urodela chinese giant salamander giant salamander andrias amphibian world hellbender cryptobranchus iberian pleurodeles fishedit invertebratesedit sponges porifera edit sea sponge giant barrel sponge xestospongia thickest part calcareous calcarea inconspicuous sponges pericharax calcareous sponges hexactinellid hexactinellida common species rhabdocalyptus old age maximum size hexactinellid sponge cnidarians cnidaria edit lion 's mane jellyfish cyanea cnidaria species scyphozoa massachusetts bell diameter longest extant animals corals anthozoa individual species discoma mouth disc diameter longer massive overall ceriantharia communities porites actual individual organisms lions mane jellyfish lions mane jellyfish massachusetts bell size tentacle length hydrozoans hydrozoa colonial siphonophore praya attain lengths portuguese man o war 's physalia flatworms platyhelminthes edit terrestrial species greenhouse bipalium monogenean monogenea small parasites listrocephalos flukes trematoda fasciolopsis attacks humans tapeworms cestoda whale tapeworm polygonoporus roundworms nematoda edit placentonema sperm whales segmented annelida edit african giant earthworm microchaetus huge worm gippsland megascolides giant polychaetes comparable sizes echinoderms echinodermata edit starfish species thromidia asteroidea maximum span bit shorter brisingid sea star midgardia evastrias giant echinoderm longest echinoderm conspicuous sea cucumber synapta slender body crinoids crinoidea heliometra total width individual arm length metacrinus stalk span multiple arms heliometra stalk lengths fossil record sea urchins echinoidea sea urchin sperosoma shell width red sea urchin mesocentrotus american coasts diadematidae diadema sea cucumbers holothuroidea bulkiest species sea cucumber stichopus thelenota synapta stichopus brittle ophiuroidea brittle star astrotoma gorgonocephalus disk diameter sea stars asteroidea thromidia evasterias fleshy sea stars midgardia small central disc ribbon nemertea edit bootlace worm lineus andrews scotland mollusca edit colossal squid mesonychoteuthis current maximum size zealand colossal squid specimen giant squid architeuthis colossal squid colossal squid overall length giant squid specimen newfoundland total length long tentacles body length thickest part giant squid expert steve o'shea such lengths elastic bands aplacophorans aplacophora shell-less mollusks epimenia chitons polyplacophora gumboot chiton cryptochiton bivalves bivalvia bivalve mollusks giant clam tridacna passive animal barrier reef axial length platyceramus cretaceous axial length gastropods gastropoda successful mollusk class various ways gastropod species syrinx maximum shell length giant species melo australia maximum girth shell-less gastropod giant black sea hare aplysia land snails giant african snail achatina cephalopods cephalopoda cephalopod architeuthis mesonychoteuthis giant pacific octopus enteroctopus giant octopus arm span head-to-tentacle-tip length specimens arthropods arthropoda edit sea scorpion jaekelopterus body length arthropleura spider crab macrocheira overall size record specimen arm span american lobster homarus nova scotia body length land arthropod land invertebrate coconut crab birgus arachnids arachnida giant huntsman heteropoda laos goliath theraphosa america massive arachnids comparable dimensions chaco golden knee grammostola brazilian lasiodora huntsman spider new world theraphosa grammostola theraphosa lasiodora body length heterometrus indian subcontinent maximum length large scorpion african imperial scorpion pandinus pulmonoscorpius giant extinct species scotland brontoscorpio similar weight branchiopods branchiopoda freshwater crustaceans branchinecta centipedes chilopoda scolopendra millipedes diplopoda large size archispirostreptus africa scaphistostreptus seychelles arthropleura gigantic prehistoric specimen barnacles maxillopoda pennella fin whales balaenoptera maximum size giant acorn barnacle balanus horseshoe merostomata modern horseshoe crabs easily limulus america ostracods ostracoda numerous crustaceans gigantocypris australis females maximum length amphipods peracarida giant isopod bathynomus sea spiders pycnogonida sea spiders deep-sea species colossendeis leg span remipedes remipedia godzillius trilobites trilobita extinct marine arthropods complete specimen isotelus manitoba ogyginus portugal fragments record sizes hungioides bohemicus implies full animal insects insecta edit insects arthropoda numerous class heaviest insect species-rich order giant wetas deinacrida elephant beetles america megasoma m. titan titanus neotropical rainforests goliath goliathus g. africa 's rainforests goliath elephant beetles titan beetle goliath part thanks large horns goliath beetle 's wingspan heaviest beetles longest insects extinct dragonfly-like order protodonata carboniferous meganeura france permian meganeuropsis america insect species cockroaches blattodea australian macropanesthia giant cockroach blaberus comparable lengths own order isoptera blattodea african species macrotermes beetles coleoptera massive species goliathus megasoma titanus large species hercules dynastes neotropic rainforests maximum overall length pronotal horn longest overall beetle longhorn beetle batocera guinea long antennae earwigs dermaptera saint helena giant earwig labidura true diptera neotropical species gauromydas species crane fly holorusia gauromydas mayflies ephemeroptera proboscidoplocia madagascar true hemiptera diverse order giant water bug lethocerus l. neotropics maximum size huge beetles megapomponia head-body length tacua large sizes giant oak aphid stomaphis overall length ledromorpha ants hymenoptera heaviest species dorylus whole colony ponerine ant dinoponera america bulldog ant myrmecia australia total length large mandibles bee species hymenoptera megachile indonesia carpenter bees so-called tarantula hawk species pepsis america pepsis similar size moths lepidoptera hercules coscinocera saturniidae guinea australia surface area square centimeters maximum wingspan species overall alexandra ornithoptera papua guinea atlas attacus asia atlas previous species surface area hercules white witch thysania america white witch surface area hercules thysania mature moths giant carpenter moth xyleutes australia n't surpass mantises mantodea toxodera java overall length cameroon widespread mantis species chinese mantis tenodera alderflies megaloptera small insect order large species net-winged neuroptera palparellus blue eyes nymphes australia ancient order jurassic era dragonflies odonata megaloprepus body length spanning tetracanthagyna asia megaloprepus meganeura grasshoppers orthoptera giant wetas zealand barrier giant weta deinacrida insects weights heavyweight insects grasshopper species australian giant grasshopper valanga american eastern lubber grasshopper romalea grasshopper sizes south american giant grasshopper tropidacris longest members giant wetas macrolyristes asia long legs stick phasmatodea longest insect phobaeticus bornean history london total length front legs longest body phobaeticus borneo overall length front legs longest insect total length phobaeticus malaysia singapore pharnacia spiny stick insect heteropteryx malaysia extreme lengths heteropteryx thickest part lice phthiraptera hog louse haematopinus large livestock stoneflies plecoptera pteronarcys america booklice psocoptera small insects psocus top size fleas siphonaptera hystrichopsylla mountain beaver aplodontia silverfishes thysanura human household objects old form thrips thysanoptera phasmothrips maximum size species attain caddisflies trichoptera moth-like caddisflies eubasilissa fungiedit honey fungus armillaria malheur national forest oregon u.s. fungal colony april canadian journal forest research accurate estimate total weight aspen grove pando armillaria individual mushroom individual size mushroom phellinus fomitiporia hainan body masses p. individual fruit body rigidoporus r. protistsedit protista current taxonomy amoebozoans amoebozoa edit slime moulds physarum euglenozoans euglenozoa edit certain species euglena rhizarians rhizaria edit giant amoeboids such species syringammina alveolates alveolata edit spirostomum stramenopiles stramenopila edit giant kelp macrocystis macrocystis brown alga bacteriaedit thiomargarita typical bacteria cyanobacteria blue green algae lyngbya filamentous cells virusesedit pithovirus typical size light microscopes march soil sample siberia megavirus megavirus capsid diameter 1,259,197 base pairs july french pandoravirus genome contains 1,900,000 2,500,000 base pairs dna pandoravirus megavirus charismatic deep-sea genome giant island gigantism largest body part largest prehistoric animals list lists megafauna smallest referencesedit biological scientist biologists fundamental research attempt biologists research attempt specific processes biologists research specific fields large-scale organism interactions whole multicellular organisms small-scale cellular molecular processes biologists study direct aspects biologists conduct research scientific method hypothesis formation others study multicellular organisms different fields evolutionary biology academic degree ph.d. direct independent research specific area biological scientists work fundamental research research enhances understanding scientific database furthermore human health natural environment biological scientists private industry laboratories post-graduate qualifications phd biological product development basic research particular fields new pharmaceutical drugs medical diagnostic tests increase crop yields basic researchers marketable treatments business goals biological product development private industry research plans biologists conduct laboratory experiments biological research natural observation plant species particular environment forest area recovers swift organic molecules biological scientists work biological genetic material biotechnological processes dna important substances human insulin growth hormone large quantities various genome projects isolate genes specific diseases health risks sickle cell anemia advances research opportunities commercial applications specialists biological scientists certain type specific activity recent advances traditional classifications aquatic biologists study micro-organisms marine biologists study salt water organisms limnologists study fresh water organisms marine biology centers molecular biology biochemical processes marine biology physical characteristics ocean floor handbook environmental scientists biochemists chemical composition complex chemical combinations botanists study plants plant life plant parts plant processes plant diseases geological record mycologists study fungi separate kingdom microbiologists microscopic organisms industrial microbiology fight infections characterize biological information molecular level cell reproduction human disease physiologists study life functions whole organism molecular level abnormal conditions physiologists certain area biophysicists mechanical energy computational biologists computer science address biological problems main focus computational simulation techniques scientific research topics experimental questions zoologists wildlife biologists study animals life processes live animals natural surroundings others dissect dead animals zoologists wildlife biologists analyze biological data potential uses water areas zoologists animal group ornithologists study birds mammalogists study mammals herpetologists study reptiles ichthyologists study fish cnidariologists study jellyfishes entomologists study insects ecologists population size various scientific disciplines working biological unhealthy conditions dangerous organisms toxic substances strict safety procedures biological scientists conduct field studies physical activity biological cold climates marine biologists encounter others work research ships sharp coral reefs hazardous marine life marine biologists biological scientists grant money biological regular hours 40-hour workweek researchers odd hours awards nobel physiology medicine swedish significant award crafoord biosciences list lists references u.s. occupational outlook handbook notable biologists wikipedia list author abbreviation list list list list list list list list list author abbreviation list nobel prize winners humayun abdulali indian ornithologist aziz ab'saber brazilian erik acharius swedish johann friedrich adam russian botanist arthur adams english henry adams english william adamson scottish botanist aiton michel adanson french naturalist adans edgar douglas adrian british electrophysiologist nobel physiology medicine adam afzelius swedish carl adolph agardh swedish jacob georg agardh swedish louis agassiz swiss zoologist alexander agassiz american zoologist louis agassiz nikolaus ager french botanist pedro alberch spanish naturalist bruce alberts american biochemist national academy boyd alexander english horace alexander english richard d. alexander american evolutionary biologist wilfred backhouse alexander english alfred william alcock british naturalist salim ali indian ornithologist swiss botanist f.allam warder clyde allee american zoologist allee joel asaph allen george james allman british naturalist prospero alpini italian botanist sidney altman canadian-born molecular biologist nobel chemistry rna bruce ames american biochemist ames oliveira anchieta portuguese naturalist george angas english swedish marine zoologist aristotle bc-322 bc greek philosopher peter artedi swedish gilbert ashwell american biochemist cell receptor jean baptiste audebert french naturalist jean victoire audouin french zoologist john james audubon american ornithologist charlotte auerbach german geneticist richard axel julius axelrod american biochemist nobel physiology medicine catecholamine neurotransmitters william orville ayres american physician azara ba-bi churchill babington british archaeologist john bachman american naturalist curt backeberg german botanist backeb karl ernst baer liberty hyde bailey american botanist l.h.bailey spencer fullerton baird john hutton balfour scottish botanist balf david baltimore nobel physiology medicine joseph austrian nobel physiology medicine vestibular system benjamin smith barton american botanist barton john bartram american botanist bartram william bartram american naturalist w.bartram anton bary henry walter bates english patrick bateson english science writer zoological london august johann georg karl batsch german botanist nicolas baudin french botanist gaspard bauhin swiss botanist binomial nomenclature linnaeus c.bauhin german naturalist bechst rollo beck american ornithologist charles william beebe martinus beijerinck dutch thomas bell english david bellamy english edward turner bennett english george bentham english benth robert bentley english bentley wilson teixeira beraldo brazilian hans berger german neuroscientist carl bergmann german anatomist bergmann 's rule rudolph bergh danish physician claude bernard french physiologist samuel stillman berry u.s. marine zoologist thomas bewick english colin bibby english gabriel bibron french zoologist johannes abraham bierens haan dutch ann bishop english biswamoy biswas bl-bu liz blackburn john blackwall british entomologist henri marie ducrotay blainville french zoologist albert francis blakeslee american botanist jimsonweed thomas blakiston english william thomas blanford english pieter bleeker dutch nobel prize-winning address tags proper location steven block american biophysicist mechanical properties carl ludwig blume german-dutch blume johann friedrich blumenbach german physiologist edward blyth english bocage portuguese zoologist pieter boddaert charles lucien bonaparte french naturalist james bond american ornithologist franco andrea bonelli italian ornithologist august gustav heinrich bongard german botanist charles bonnet swiss naturalist french botanist bonpl jules bordet belgian immunologist nobel physiology medicine complement system immune system antonina georgievna borissova russian botanist norman borlaug american agricultural scientist nobel revolution louis augustin guillaume bosc french zoologist george albert boulenger belgian zoologist jules bourcier french naturalist johann friedrich brandt german naturalist brandt sara branham matthews american microbiologist ludwig brehm german ornithologist alfred brehm german zoologist sydney brenner british molecular biologist nobel physiology medicine thomas mayo brewer american naturalist william brewster american ornithologist mathurin jacques brisson french zoologist nathaniel britton american botanist britton thomas d. brock american biologist adolphe theodore brongniart french botanist brongn robert broom african james h. brown american ecologist robert brown r.br david bruce scottish pathologist french naturalist danish zoologist francis buchanan-hamilton scottish zoologist stephen l. buchmann forgotten pollinators linda b. buck american physiologist nobel prize winner samuel botsford buckley american naturalist buckley buffon french naturalist buffon william bullock english walter buller zealand james bulwer english alexander g. bunge german-russian luther burbank american horticulturalist hermann burmeister german zoologist carlos bustamante american biophysicist molecular tweezers dna ernesto bustamante peruvian biochemist currently dna jean cabanis german ornithologist george caley english rudolf jakob camerarius german botanist frederick campion steward british botanist a. p. candolle swiss botanist philip pearsall carpenter alexis carrel french biologist nobel physiology medicine organ transplants french botanist ecuadorian sean b. carroll american evolutionary development biologist rachel carson silent george washington carver american botanist john cassin american ornithologist alexandre cassini french botanist cass william e. castle american geneticist mark catesby english andrea cesalpino italian botanist francesco cetti italian zoologist carlos chagas brazilian adelbert chamisso german botanist [ simon chan zealand plant biologist min chueh chang frank michler chapman martha chase american biologist hershey-chase dna thomas frederic cheeseman zealand sergei chetverikov russian population geneticist charles chilton zealand carl chun german marine biologist nathan cobb american biologist alfred cogniaux belgian botanist cogn stanley cohen american biologist nobel laureate physiology medicine growth factors james j. collins american biologist synthetic biology systems biology henry boardman conover american ornithologist timothy abbott conrad american malacologist james graham cooper american naturalist william cooper american conchologist edward drinker cope charles coquerel french navy surgeon carl ferdinand cori american biochemist nobel physiology medicine cori gerty cori american biochemist american woman nobel carl cori charles b. cory american ornithologist emanuel mendez costa english elliott coues american ornithologist marjorie courtenay-latimer african jacques cousteau french marine biologist miguel rolando covian argentine-brazilian brazilian frederick vernon coville american botanist robert k. crane american biochemist sodium-glucose cotransport philipp jakob cretzschmar german zoologist francis crick dna joseph charles hippolyte crosse french conchologist nicholas culpeper english allan cunningham english william curtis english georges cuvier valerie daggett american bioengineer anders dahl dahlia w.h dall american naturalist charles darwin british naturalist erasmus darwin charles charles davenport american biologist eugenics record cold spring harbor laboratory armand david french zoologist bernard davis american biologist richard dawkins british evolutionary biologist pierre antoine delalande french naturalist german physicist replication mechanism richard dell zealand stefano delle chiaje paul puydt belgian botanist french botanist french geologist french zoologist ernst dieffenbach german naturalist johann jacob dillenius german botanist lewis weston dillwyn british botanist walter dobrogosz american microbiologist lactobacillus theodosius dobzhansky american geneticist evolutionary biologist rembert dodoens flemish anton dohrn german marine biologist david don british botanist james donn english jean dorst french ornithologist henry doubleday british entomologist david douglas scottish botanist jonas c. dryander swedish renato dulbecco ronald duman biological french zoologist michel felix dunal french botanist robin dunbar italian virologist gerald durrell sylvia earle american oceanographer john carew eccles australian nobel physiology medicine friedrich ecklon danish botanist eckl gerald edelman nobel immunology work george edwards british naturalist gottfried ehrenberg german biologist paul ehrlich nobel prize-winning karl eichwald russian geologist theodor eimer german zoologist george eliava georgian daniel giraud elliot american zoologist german zoologist stephan ladislaus endlicher austrian endl michael s. engel american paleontologist george engelmann german-american adolf engler german botanist engl johann polycarp erxleben german naturalist johann friedrich eschscholtz baltic german biologist california constantin ettingshausen austrian warren ewens american mathematical population geneticist thomas campbell eyton english jean henri fabre french entomologist johan fabricius danish entomologist david fairchild american botanist hugh falconer scottish paleontologist leonardo fea italian zoologist christoph feldegg austrian lewis j. feldman american botanist howard barraclough barry fell english pre-columbian contact theorist brazilian harold john finlay zealand otto finsch german naturalist johann fischer waldheim german entomologist james fisher english paul henri fischer french physician ronald fisher british biologist population genetics leopold fitzinger austrian tim flannery australian jim flegg british ornithologist alexander fleming british medical scientist walther flemming german physician thomas bainbrigge fletcher english howard walter florey brian j. ford british biologist e. b. ford british ecological geneticist swedish georg forster german naturalist g.forst peter forster german geneticist johann reinhold forster german naturalist robert fortune scottish botanist dian fossey american zoologist rosalind franklin cysneiro brazilian elias magnus fries modern mushroom taxonomy karl frisch austrian nobel imre frivaldszky hungarian leonhart fuchs german botanist fuente morales spanish biologist louis agassiz fuertes joseph gaertner german botanist french botanist joseph paul gaimard canadian primatologist robert gallo american virologist hiv william gambel american naturalist prosper garnot french naturalist french botanist michael gazzaniga american cognitive neuroscientist split-brain patients howard scott gentry american botanist john gerard english conrad gesner swiss naturalist gesner luca ghini italian botanist clelia giacobini italian microbiologist john h. gillespie american molecular evolutionist population geneticist charles henry gimingham british botanist french biologist johann friedrich gmelin german naturalist j.f.gmel johann georg gmelin german naturalist j.g.gmel samuel gottlieb gmelin german botanist s.g.gmel frederick ducane godman english goeldi swiss-brazilian johann wolfgang goethe literary works plant metamorphosis plant formation leaf camillo golgi italian physician nobel prize winner jane goodall british primatologist forty-year study family life george gordon british botanist philip henry gosse english augustus addison gould american conchologist john gould english stephen jay gould american paleontologist alfred grandidier french naturalist guillaume grandidier french naturalist explorer son alfred grandidier grandin american animal scientist humane livestock facilities chapman grant american herpetologist french zoologist asa american botanist george robert english j.e british zoologist andrew jackson grayson american ornithologist william king gregory american zoologist edward grey viscount grey fallodon british ornithologist frederick griffith british bacteriologist jeremy griffith australian jan frederik gronovius dutch french entomologist german naturalist allvar gullstrand swedish nobel physiology medicine image formation johann ernst gunnerus norwegian british/german ernst haeckel german physician hermann august hagen german entomologist b. s. haldane british evolutionary biologist population genetics william donald hamilton british evolutionary biologist sylvanus charles thorp hanley british conchologist thomas hardwicke english alister clavering hardy english marine biologist biological basis richard harlan american naturalist denham harman american biogerontologist free radical theory maarten hart dutch ernst hartert german ornithologist gustav hartlaub german zoologist karl theodor hartweg german botanist william henry harvey irish phycologist hans hass austrian frederik hasselquist swedish arthur hay marquess tweeddale english james hector scottish geologist charles hedley australia oskar heinroth german biologist wilhelm hemprich german naturalist willi hennig german biologist john stevens henslow english johann hermann french physician albert william herre american ichthyologist alfred hershey american bacteriologist nobel physiology medicine philip hershkovitz american mammalogist leo george hertlein american paleontologist archibald vivian british physiologist nobel physiology medicine mechanical work brian houghton hodgson english bruno hofer german fisheries scientist johann centurius hoffmannsegg german botanist jacques bernard hombron french naturalist leroy american biochemist high speed dna robert hooke british natural philosopher royal society joseph dalton hooker british botanist kew botanic gardens william jackson hooker british botanist kew botanic gardens john jack horner american paleontologist thomas horsfield american naturalist bernardo houssay argentine nobel physiology medicine pituitary hormones blood sugar martinus houttuyn dutch albert howard british botanist eliot howard english sarah blaffer hrdy u.s. evolutionary psychology david h. hubel canadian-born american neurobiologist nobel physiology medicine visual system swiss naturalist ambrosius hubrecht dutch william henry hudson argentinian-british alexander humboldt german naturalist allan octavian hume british ornithologist rob hume british ornithologist george evelyn hutchinson american ecologist frederick wollaston hutton english zealand julian sorell huxley english modern evolutionary synthesis d-g unesco thomas henry huxley english scientific education alpheus hyatt american neo-lamarckian libbie hyman invertebrate zoologist josef hyrtl austrian hermann ihering german naturalist johann karl wilhelm illiger german entomologist jan ingenhousz dutch-born british botanist tom iredale english paul erdmann isert biologist nobel nikolaus joseph jacquin dutch-born austrian french surgeon daniel h. janzen american entomologist william jardine scottish naturalist feliks pawel jarocki polish thomas c. jerdon british zoologist wilhelm johannsen term gene david starr jordan 1st president french zoologist adrien-henri jussieu french botanist antoine jussieu french naturalist antoine laurent jussieu juss bernard jussieu french naturalist ernest everett zbigniew kabata polish pehr kalm swedish eric r. kandel austrian-born american neuroscientist winner nobel physiology medicine neural correlates gustav karl wilhelm hermann karsten german botanist rudolf kaufmann allopatric speciation stuart kauffman biological systems johann jakob kaup german naturalist janet kear english gerald a. kerkut british zoologist anton kerner marilaun austrian robert kerr animal kingdom warwick estevam kerr brazilian bee genetics african bees brazil zofia kielan-jaworowska polish paleontological expeditions gobi motoo kimura mathematical biologist theoretical population genetics norman boyd kinnear scottish zoologist william kirby english heinrich kittlitz german naturalist wilhelm kobelt german zoologist austrian-brazilian chagas karl koch german botanist robert koch nobel prize-winning emil theodor kocher german physician nobel physiology medicine thyroid gland alexander koenig german naturalist albert swiss physiologist charles konig german naturalist arthur kornberg dna adriaan kortlandt dutch albrecht kossel german physician nobel physiology medicine cell biology hans adolf krebs german biochemist nobel physiology medicine citric acid cycle cellular respiration gerard krefft german-born australian eduardo krieger brazilian kewal krishan biological anthropologist forensic anthropology panjab chandigarh india schack august steenberg krogh danish physiologist nobel physiology medicine skeletal muscle heinrich kuhl henri laborit french surgeon bernard germain ville comte french naturalist david lack british ornithologist lafresnaye french ornithologist jean-baptiste lamarck french evolutionist aylmer bourke lambert british botanist charles lamberton french paleontologist hugh lamprey british ecologist kai larsen danish botanist charles francis laseron american-born australian john latham english french entomologist charles louis alphonse laveran french physician nobel physiology medicine george newbold lawrence american ornithologist william elford leach english marine biologist colin leakey british tropical botanist bean science joseph leconte tim lee antoni leeuwenhoek dutch french naturalist joseph leidy american paleontologist johann philipp achilles leisler dutch juan lembeye spanish naturalist leonardo vinci dissected exact copies jean baptiste leschenault tour french botanist rene primevere lesson french naturalist charles alexandre lesueur french naturalist vaillant french ornithologist edward b. lewis american geneticist nobel prize-winner richard lewontin wen-hsiung li evolutionary biologist emmanuel liais french botanist martin lichtenstein german zoologist john lightfoot english david r. lindberg american malacologist aristid lindenmayer hungarian john lindley english heinrich friedrich link german botanist link carolus linnaeus swedish binomial nomenclature system l. linn jacques loeb german-american friedrich loeffler german biologist konrad lorenz austrian harri lorenzi brazilian john claudius loudon english james lovelock english gaia percy lowe english peter wilhelm lund danish zoologist salvador luria nobel prize winner adolfo lutz brazilian public health researcher french microbiologist nobel physiology medicine richard lydekker english trofim lysenko soviet biologist lysenkoism ma-mi french malacologist john macadam scottish-born australian john m. macdougal american botanist william macgillivray scottish naturalist marcello malpighi italian anatomist ramon margalef spanish-catalan leo margolis canadian fisheries parasitologist lynn margulis american microbiologist alberto marmora italian naturalist othniel charles marsh barry marshall australian nobel physiology medicine stomach ulcers spanish botanist carl friedrich philipp martius german botanist john martyn english thomas martyn english john marwick zealand poland francis masson scottish botanist gregory mathews australian paul matschie german zoologist william diller matthew american paleontologist polly matzinger american immunologist carl maximowicz russian botanist harold maxwell-lefroy english robert may royal society london ernst mayr evolutionary biologist barbara mcclintock american biologist nobel james v. mcconnell american biological psychologist mark mcmenamin american paleontologist bruce mcewen neuroendocrinologist stress hormone expert edmund meade-waldo english ilya ilyich mechnikov russian microbiologist immune system nobel physiology medicine johann wilhelm meigen german entomologist gregor mendel czech-austrian pea plants edouard menetries french entomologist maud leonora menten archibald menzies scottish naturalist clinton hart merriam american zoologist john c. merriam american biologist franz meyen german botanist rodolphe meyer schauensee american ornithologist otto fritz meyerhof german/american nobel physiology medicine leonor michaelis german biologist french botanist aleksandr fyodorovich middendorf russian zoologist nicholai miklukho-maklai russian marine biologist gerrit smith miller jr. american zoologist jacques miller australian john frederick miller english kenneth r. miller american evolutionary biologist philip miller scottish botanist alphonse milne-edwards french zoologist henri milne-edwards french zoologist george jackson mivart english mo-mu hugo mohl german botanist german naturalist juan ignacio molina chilean jacques monod george montagu english luc montagnier french discoverer hiv rita levi-montalcini italian-american nobel physiology medicine growth factors tommaso maria allery monterosato italian malacologist montfort french naturalist george thomas moore american botanist alfred moquin-tandon french naturalist thomas hunt morgan american geneticist natural history fruit fly drosophila desmond morris british zoologist roger morse guy mountfort english ladislav mucina slovakian ferdinand mueller german-australian john muir american naturalist danish naturalist german-brazilian thurgau swiss botanist german zoologist salomon muller dutch kary mullis otto german botanist john murray scots-canadian biologist gary paul nabhan forgotten pollinators karl wilhelm nageli swiss botanist johann friedrich naumann german founder scientific ornithology john needham english gottfried daniel nees esenbeck german botanist masatoshi nei american evolutionary biologist population randolph m. nesse american evolutionary biologist charles f. newcombe british botanist alfred newton english margaret morse nice american ornithologist henry alleyne nicholson british zoologist elmer noble american parasitologist alfred merle norman english alfred john australian german biologist nobel prize-winner thomas nuttall english nils hjalmar odhner swedish eugene p. odum american ecologist howard t. odum american ecologist anders sandoe oersted danish botanist oerst william ogilby irish naturalist william robert ogilvie-grant scottish ornithologist tomoko ohta evolutionary biologist lorenz oken german naturalist giuseppe olivi italian naturalist mark a. o'neill british biologist computer scientist aleksandr oparin russian biologist alcide french naturalist george ord american ornithologist eleanor anne ormerod english henry fairfield osborn amnh william charles osman british anatomist primate anatomy 20th century polish emile oustalet french zoologist richard owen george emil palade romanian-american nobel paul maurice pallary french-algerian peter simon pallas russian zoologist edward palmer british botanist josif pancic serbian paracelsus german alchemist louis pasteur french biochemist william paterson british botanist robert patterson irish naturalist daniel pauly french marine biologist paz brazilian ivan pavlov russian physiologist nobel digestive system titian peale american naturalist donald c. peattie american botanist eva j. pell american plant pathologist paul pelseneer belgian malacologist jean-marie pelt french botanist thomas pennant welsh naturalist henri perrier french botanist george perry english hendrik persoon paul petard french botanist wilhelm peters german naturalist ludwig karl georg pfeiffer german physician rodolfo amando philippi german-chilean constantine john phipps english david andrew phoenix biochemist frederick octavius pickard-cambridge english octavius pickard-cambridge english charles pickering american naturalist spanish naturalist henry augustus pilsbry american zoologist gregory goodwin pincus american biologist contraceptive pill ronald plasterk dutch molecular biologist pliny roman natural philosopher reginald innes pocock british taxonomist felipe poey cuban joel roberts poinsett american botanist henry puyjalon canadian ecologist giuseppe saverio poli italian physicist natural historian winston ponder australian arthur william baden powell zealand thomas littleton powys baron lilford english karel presl bohemian alice pruvot-fol french malacologist czech frederick traugott pursh german-american paul puydt belgian botanist nikolai przhevalsky jean louis armand quatrefages french naturalist quoy gustav radde german naturalist thomas stamford raffles british founder/first president zoological london constantine samuel rafinesque french naturalist louis ragonot french entomologist cajal spanish histologist nobel considered edward pierson ramsay australian austin l. rand canadian zoologist suresh rattan indian biogerontologist john ray english francesco redi italian physician lovell augustus reeve english heinrich gustav reichenbach german orchidologist rchb ludwig reichenbach german botanist rchb anton reichenow german ornithologist caspar georg carl reinwardt dutch bernhard rensch german biologist ralf reski german botanist physcomitrella model organism achille richard french botanist rich jean michel claude richard french botanist plant collector j.m.c.rich louis claude richard french botanist rich olivier jules richard french lichenologist o.j.rich john richardson scottish naturalist richardson charles richet french physiologist nobel physiology medicine charles wallace richmond american ornithologist robert ridgway american ornithologist henry nicholas ridley british botanist ridl austin roberts african harold e. robinson american botanist silva brazilian martin rodbell german malacologist george romanes canadian naturalist comparative psychology alfred romer vertebrate paleontology robert rosen theoretical biologist joel rosenbaum cell biologist yale harald rosenthal german hydrobiologist miriam louisa rothschild british entomologist walter rothschild baron rothschild british zoologist william roxburgh scottish botanist adriaan royen dutch royen karl rudolphi german physiologist sa-so joseph sabine english julius sachs geoffroy saint-hilaire french naturalist isidore geoffroy saint-hilaire french zoologist carl ulisses salis-marschlins swiss naturalist edward james salisbury british botanist richard anthony salisbury british botanist jonas salk american biologist polio vaccine robert sapolsky american neuroscientist georg ossian sars norwegian marine biologist michael sars norwegian william saunders american botanist saussure swiss naturalist french zoologist thomas say american naturalist george schaller american zoologist preeminent field biologist 20th century friedrich schlechter german botanist hermann schlegel german ornithologist matthias jakob schleiden german co-founder cell theory george schoener german-american johann david schoepf german botanist heinrich wilhelm schott german botanist johann daniel schreber german naturalist leopold schrenck russo-german charles schuchert theodor schwann german physiologist georg august schweinfurth german botanist philip sclater english giovanni antonio scopoli italian-austrian henry seebohm english prideaux john selby english nikolai alekseevich severtzov russian naturalist richard bowdler sharpe english george shaw english george ernest shelley english sir charles scott sherrington british physiologist nobel physiology medicine philipp franz siebold german botanist george gaylord simpson american paleontologist rolf singer john kunkel small american botanist small andrew smith scottish zoologist edgar albert smith british zoologist frederick smith british entomologist james edward smith english sm johannes jacobus smith dutch j.j.sm james leonard brierley smith african john maynard smith john otterbein snyder american zoologist solomon h. snyder american neuroscientist daniel solander swedish sp-sy douglas spalding english animal behavior lazzaro spallanzani italian biologist anders sparrman swedish walter baldwin spencer english roger w. sperry american neuropsychologist nobel physiology medicine split-brain research maximilian spinola johann baptist spix german naturalist herman spoering finnish kurt sprengel german botanist stewart springer american ichthyologist shark classification richard spruce english agustin stahl puerto rican edward stanley earl derby english japetus steenstrup danish zoologist franz steindachner austrian leonhard hess stejneger norwegian georg wilhelm steller russian ornithologist james francis stephens english kaspar maria sternberg bohemian karl stetter german microbiologist nettie maria stevens american biologist edward charles stirling australian gerald stokell zealand gottlieb conrad christian storr german naturalist eduard strasburger german botanist strasb erwin stresemann german ornithologist john struthers scottish anatomist samuel stutchbury english carl jakob sundevall swedish mriganka sur indian cognitive neuroscientist henry suter zealand william john swainson english jan swammerdam dutch olof swartz swedish sw. robert swinhoe english colonel w. h. sykes english wladyslaw taczanowski polish armen takhtajan russian botanist peter gustaf tengmalm swedish coenraad jacob temminck dutch theophrastus bc bc aristotle peripatetic johannes thiele german zoologist michael rogers oldfield thomas british zoologist william thompson irish ornithologist louis-marie aubert petit-thouars french botanist carl peter thunberg swedish samuel tickell british ornithologist niko tinbergen dutch agostino todaro italian botanist susumu tonegawa nobel physiology medicine genetic principle antibody diversity john torrey american botanist new world joseph pitton tournefort french botanist john kirk townsend american ornithologist thomas stewart traill scottish doctor abraham trembley swiss naturalist melchior treub dutch henry baker tristram english robert trivers louis trouessart french naturalist frederick w. true american naturalist george washington tryon jr. american malacologist bernard tucker english edward tuckerman american botanist endel tulving estonian-born canadian neuroscientist episodic memory marmaduke tunstall english ruth turner marine biologist william turton jakob estonian martin vahl norwegian sebastien vaillant french botanist achille valenciennes french zoologist francisco varela chilean nikolai vavilov soviet botanist bourgeois pseudoscience lysenkoism damodaran m. vasudevan indian physician craig venter american biologist edouard verreaux french naturalist jules verreaux french botanist addison emery verrill american zoologist louis jean pierre vieillot french ornithologist nicholas aylward vigors irish zoologist rudolf virchow german biologist cell theory oswaldo brazil brazilian spider bites bert vogelstein american geneticist karel voous dutch mary voytek american biogeochemist microbial ecologist hugo vries dutch frans waal dutch coslett herbert waddell irish botanist jeremy wade tv presenter special interest freshwater fish johann georg wagler german herpetologist warren h. wagner american botanist swedish selman waksman american biochemist nobel physiology medicine charles athanase walckenaer french entomologist george wald american biologist nobel physiology medicine visual perception alfred russel wallace british naturalist nathaniel wallich danish botanist benjamin dann walsh american entomologist william grey walter american neurophysiologist important discoveries deepal warakagoda sri lankan j. robin warren australian nobel physiology medicine stomach ulcers charles waterton english james d. watson nobel prize-winning dna philip barker webb english webb hugh algernon weddell english wedd robert weinberg american cancer biologist august weismann german biologist friedrich welwitsch austrian karl wernicke german physician wernicke 's area victor westhoff dutch alexander wetmore american ornithologist william morton wheeler american entomologist gilbert english john white english robert wiedersheim german anatomist alexander philipp maximilian wied-neuwied german explorer hans wiehler american botanist wiehler eric f. wieschaus american developmental biologist nobel prize-winner torsten wiesel swedish-born american neurobiologist nobel physiology medicine information processing visual system charles wilkes american explorer carl ludwig willdenow german botanist willd george c. williams american evolutionary biologist gene-centric view francis willughby english alexander wilson scottish-american david sloan wilson american evolutionary biologist e. a. wilson english edward o. wilson american entomologist time winner pulitzer sergei winogradsky russian microbiologist soil scientist life concept biological process caspar wistar american anatomist wisteria henry witherby british ornithologist william withering english carl woese american microbiologist archaea major division felisa wolfe-simon american biogeochemist microbial geobiologist wong siew te malaysian sun bear flossie wong-staal american virologist sewall wright american geneticist population genetics v. c. wynne-edwards scottish zoologist group selection charles wyville thompson john xantus vesey william yarrell english floyd zaiger fruit geneticist eberhard august wilhelm zimmermann german zoologist karl alfred zittel german palaeontologist joseph gerhard zuccarini list russian noise analyzer open source software reaction kinetics software analyzes mathematical models intracellular reaction kinetics gene expression regulatory networks quantify concentration fluctuations random nature chemical reactions background deterministic reaction rate equations molecular species low molecule numbers chemical reaction kinetics intracellular molecule numbers cell-to-cell variability accurate stochastic description chemical master equation monte carlo stochastic simulation algorithm large amount accurate statistics efficient way system size expansion chemical master equation systematic analytical approximation method 
